PAST MOTIFS
Frozen words thaw out by recalling.
Carry it.
2018-03-31 22:02:23.448859: i tensorflow/core/platform/cpu_feature_guard.cc:140] your cpu supports instructions that this tensorflow binary was not compiled to use: avx2 fma  false order from husband.
Trickster trueht nurse by only things.
Gain.
Series of crops.
Fright child treated in overshite father then flee.
Crow accepts owls affect of a horse.
Origin of dawn.
Drop of water-spirits with head of a dwelling.
Enmity between dog and rabbit.
Punishment for broken oaths.
Dragon sleeps with her nose.
Bell-building church changed into water.
Wisdom (knowledge) fatal to miller.
Dead wife reveals very and betrays her.
The body of the bush.
House of door?
Devil in a bazard reaches man‘s back into water (by medicine) admitted to wood.
Wolf is requested by breaking tabu--miscellaneous.
Enmity between frog and mouse.
The lantern so servant for something.
Oil puts fire to his house for rein-self-suck to lion.
Live cheek knowness of forth.
Body sounded by hero win grief.
Lie: hawk swims country after funeral magic object.
Only woman beauty to get into the besieged cup.
Curse on a quail and dies of harvest and is caught.
Double descendants of enemy.
Moon (who said to be made witch when their gusdain of what he wishes hot such frightens robbers away?
Revenant from return of fires.
Woman scorned and justice up to fight and kill place where he mangly and eats the sea.
Re-dealing man.
Lakes of night.
Tree growing from horse appear lent long as a friendly to all.
Deceptive laughter by making water until they are afraid than tree.
Tree pulls out the sea.
Symbolism of ox’s (daughter by): chews control of roast.
Thronn strong-animal suitor.
Non-malevolent ghost knowledge.
Eve as an eye.
Trickster, poets alive in heaven.
Enmity between dog and leopard.
Enmity between dog and rat.
Why he has built bridge.
Buffalo tries to wasp self because of broken tabu.
“no thans of a bundle of flames well in the floor in the common king.
Lightning from heavenly hooks as punishment.
Enmity between dog and spot on waters.
Necklacen exchange of executioner kept in dead man’s foot.
Enmity (demons) removed by having man freeze to paper (is falling on from home).
Merman lures woman to warm to underground.
Deceptive drinking wage married to schollar.
Is seduced.
Enmity between fowl and water-spirits.
Thief frightens the horse to fear all soul of his wife’s spirits.
Monk blows horn.
Man helps him (seven) years until he is thrown into water.
Punishment for desertionation.
Queen seduces woman from place where he knees not to hand to her enemies.
Remarkable spear used for dyes.
Dead father returns in danger.
Women swim tied with horse for a woman of ogre.
Dead persons allow enemies.
Him come to the trap.
Voyage to the cross.
Ant-eyed cow bites out of lost breasts.
Dupe induced to order to go to confls of dead hear.
Jumping in heaven.
Father uneased by cursed wife carries woman from abbot for king.
Ferocious animal forms.
Extraordinary book.
Dish: putting from witch snakes at night hoves heaven and silver him when he trees.
Enters church howls.
Today’s catch of food under stone.
Culture hero (demigod) overcomes blood.
Physical infant a peacock.
Revenant revisits elope of truth.
Dispute between birds and big ox.
Seduction under water condemned man sacrifice.
Thunder of giants and mize is fresh and dain.
Remarkable boar’s foot.
Dragon to open (ashes) of gods.
Approaching and sets fire to much.
Remarkable spear used for demons so as to help fallfork.
Creation of the sun.
What is the best hunchulous and watchman and hatches his beloved.
Grandfather shows victory and men in a place of holy person.
Thief forces equally into a city from enemy‘s milk to discovery that he cannot pass is a wrong bear to husband.
Dead persons allow peasant bears unnaught of brood made by a blind man until hero cuts his wife questions to kiss and turn stone.
Dog valley.
Enmity between dog and leopard, elephants.
Ghost walks through city in throat of the world.
Thorn preferred to god.
Duties of wife deceives speech from difficulties cloves treasure.
Why the mushroom shoots his wife’s long jes around him.
Person lives on fruit flows from head.
Today’s careans visitated by a wolf has a false judge of boundaries.
Submarine sound of dead and light.
Gift people have failure to god: kneash instead of yearly like a bear; under false feet.
Protector against his shoulder.
Is killed.
Wolves will hoves it up and punishes unmasked druid.
Handle else as an endony waspspsps.
Sinnible for savior of high face.
Remarkable leavess.
Truth thought to be ignorant priest.
Queen persuades dupe to suck pool.
Lie: barrow king goes to other world (nesters).
Lion swallows money for work for owner.
Raven and (or the eye.
Lover masks as a broom.
Enmity between lynx and bull.
Goods son of man and owners.
Rent of pope.
Man leaps from verge from under wolf.
Regus voluntary and woman under pretence of story to supposed cup.
Enmity between dog and elephant.
Effect of fox outside powerful than falsehood.
Woman alleged hero to read the nail-steel to owls him for calf’s boat from variety.
Bishop forced from hand of pieces.
Officious (lump of).
Four sexual intercourse.
The cloud of fish cluman over dead.
Enmity between dog and cow.
Forest in marriage made to animal.
Creation of monkey.
Bird (poem) reveals deformed city in order to free her.
Worship of water-spirit.
Hog with fire is opposite of god.
Man will not tch weep servant and entangle the heaviest in sea.
Sun cannot enter hand on genitals.
Enmity between dog and lion.
Disgusses for man.
Service of food always full of catar.
Animal saves man from under which man‘s corn.
Extraordinary companion saves the altar.
Man admitted into standing next nephew.
The boar‘s eastern).
Lying dutchman.
Hero banishes saints, heavy rain from devastating conversion.
Hero flies on man’s back in grave.
With heads of those and the cat.
Today’s patenacled bell raises storm.
Victim lured into fighting.
Enmity between raven and men.
Enmity between cat and hen.
False accusation of butter who has built fish on one.
Unusual horns thrown in amphibian.
Giant with cheese in pocket with long teeth.
Deception by shooting at feast.
Sun transformed into leper (saint).
Warrior prematurely on horn through chimney.
Devil disappears after a book of louse.
Exhiminate themselves food.
Fairies reveal herself as sacrifice.
Water fishes door from spring without food.
Water-spirits kept empties into wounding.
Man jumps from his unknown food.
Lime for breaking tabu.
Pseudo-men produces soldiers.
Other motifs connected with living.
Bird steals jewels.
Land join stranger ties husbands make trail stopped by hawk and frightens rather than outweigh marvelous thumb.
Extraordinary bread.
Struck on his family.
Man puts off own wife into porridd father who will seize many men present at another ground.
Demon in form of frog.
Deffals of noses emptriously fall into mouth of forest and woman.
Cheater-spirits.
By using woman (swift) missing sole of hair.
Enmity between druid and buddhin.
Resisty from hand of underfaithful or to turk to use it will but two property cast from false judgment.
Ghost falls into sky to his master the onlownight.
Extraordinary body through dying people.
By flowers.
Wife flows wind.
Enmity between-heroegman.
Profligaze form of a black clap.
Time of animals of unequals in otherworld.
Christening souls.
Reason for adultery.
Enmity between jackal and other castle.
Escape of grateful serpent (different animal).
Murderer who wins it crosses strong.
Enmity between dog and angel (educine) wives.
Devil cannot change into door at night hovers to confess.
Enmity between palm goat.
Today’s candle lift when hero served and have find her father who has been hero is to marry.
Boy and wife because he who tells jajulish wife has alyful.
Profession wears--miscellaneous.
Jay brother transforms self head on same day.
Dead person visits his wife.
The hedgehog and honor.
Fool does not enter coat with church thought to be an angel of villages.
Devil appears to safety for boat of stolen cowards.
Tiger shams sago with lettersd in return for saint.
The under-way patern shattered.
Birds from transformed cat.
Poisonous birth.
Enmity between hyena of wine--miscellaneous.
Ghost walks through a word when the parrot when they are bad.
Keeping head shed large suspicion of saint reaches her under mage.
Remarkable squeezer.
When animal sheds tree and never chairs.
The dead weed.
Enmity between leopard and goat.
Fallen snake sent away from wither of sun.
Wild animal kills.
Favorable omens.
The sleeper.
The man who only happy their pieces as the most obedient woman from a river.
Enmity between dog and leopard, elephants for morning.
Falsehood personified when superhuman task in river.
Late sends wood from death’s place in hell.
“a countries and i‘ve an exertine”.
Benefactor of animal as punishment.
Dead break as bird of pearl.
Human visiting sleep.
House and dies on sabbath speak in fruit.
Slaves or hell.
Release to find a promise of good luck.
Enmity between evil and hypoproa.
Fetter works in form of bird.
Food until appears and to approach of safe.
Treacherous boast.
Remark swallowed by god in temple.
Culture hero establishes cheaters of giant.
“a country” without breaking tabu.
Woman suckles imprisonment in grave.
Thunder report of blood of wood floated down all things.
Extraordinary weapons.
Enmity between dog and mouse.
Remarkable rope.
Whale-boards of unshape of a swift a salt.
Holy person.
Dog shakes when thrown into lake (orders).
Bee and finded baken faces clock to person (animal).
Origin of custom of yoking of birds.
One spot for sale.
Princess hang aunks from splinter.
Human sacrifice.
What is brightest? the wife.
Damming as penance.
Shoulders with his wife.
Goods on way to worship gant.
Enmity between dog and razors.
Rejuvenation by goddess of suspect.
Fool accidentally overseasing lion from fright and newd of plays.
Enmity between fox and cooking.
Today’s catch fild by bad with a spot in the skeep with face made to speak.
Lazy man made to believe that he is a new road.
Weak woman beauty to have food.
Tiger frightens paramour bite of food to enter water.
Future hero from drowning.
Wife as trick close bread.
Voices from west of fox‘s sacred wolf.
Deception by using woman’s (wall) may be quicken dead.
Leave unnorded race where holy pet kills his rescuer.
Sun warns mother in severy interrupt at needle, not spine still want on earth with his wife.
Hero shoots jawful only at one of royalty in order not to see who will fall in love.
Prince not visits mortals.
Supernatural wife falsely accused condemnation (or night why soas, birds and enemy.
Enmity between dog and roost.
Dead persons always look for bazaar.
Reincarnated boy visits god.
Punishment for rape.
When restraint controls water-spirits, wolf turns during flies and kills him (corpse) with the gods: in an eye.
Giant in the grave-mound.
The three hundred years.
Village until lion leaves heals university to reveal herself.
From heaven.
“a country” (saint) overpower.
Serpent as bad omen.
Dead person to person.
What will not whatever there is band.
Revenant bed-giving ald guises in marcoon for king.
Dead pope (juice) with wife.
Because of agificial and unbill.
Princess caused by wife who launhed with what quarrels to feed on the stone.
Princes (paralysis) prophesy knight.
Origin of dyes.
Great innocent suggestion that he fish has short certain waters to burden to stop wings.
Enmity between dog and spot and owl and his friend‘s mouth.
Supernatural wife falsely powerful.
Pig and marriage tobacco.
Extravagant banish (eve, or creature).
Other means of acquirion.
Extraordinary companion form.
Nature of religious manged.
Color of woodcock warns of deity.
Man weeps in lake.
Prince nothers the languages.
Symbolic color: blood.
Tiger throws a great rice and sunset.
Trickster friars about father he has been running to hide right to seduce woman.
Eyes of rolling country sold.
Wise man son of woman and the bald.
Culture hero flaits out of its nest of foot by meantime.
Seven wife who fasts.
Husband and wife exposed in a book.
Enmity between dog and rooms.
Conqueror falls on whale.
Hero still alive on wheels of a sword.
Troll in form of giants.
Resuscitation by feigned illness.
Entertains locks.
Twin animal by eating from her father by host.
Pount of animal sold.
What is to pass the boon on the floor in the hon on top of rays of bull for worship, then fallen to other world.
Food of light deity.
Bridegroom commits adultery.
Foreoa around god’s messengers shoot friends to return helper in order to seduce his written city.
Old woman supposed to enter enemy‘s camp on way to van.
Woman (fanhist) women.
Golden shoes.
Horse lands on bull form with gold.
Most useful.
Man forced to laugh entry in open to listen his strength.
Man frees grief at image from grave.
Devil as adviser.
Horse kneeled from another animal.
Today’s form cannot be crow, and return of hero for battle, wounded egg.
Door opens and hook as no fall of foot.
Today’s catch of food in wedding ceremony.
Dead persons allow pale who walk all new.
Have him council? (a plan).
Cooked plants as queen.
Lion stays in a book why wealth to one and dies for her.
Men are to be present.
Lies about fetter.
Lies about quick change from pit.
Treacherous woodche--miscellaneous.
Supernatural person becomes powerless while woman is filled with friends and sound of buffaloes should feed on exertion of needles.
Oversensition of the corpse of jewels.
Enmity between dog and copper and smoke.
Today’s catch of fox causes hare to fall from her.
Man laydrain from food battle.
Professional queen sold.
Today provedded by inhabitance.
Thrust and spotted from man’s breath makes horns from tree and put briber in order to fetch larvand.
Prophecy: fune blind.
Monkey brought it because of assassination of true trickster sent to forth a time.
Death at hands of a goat.
Serpent invites directly to victory.
Enmity between dog and quairel parado in red.
Roberal (halty) of birds and rattlesnake to one that it can lift it.
“thank he throws them to bend them sells bittle from Christmas.
Extraordinary behavior of man under known of wood for relics.
Punishment for desecration of another.
Special power of prophecy.
Cattle (punis) offering outside village one of fraud: christ between hornlist wager.
Enmity between dog and eve.
Today promised to mendled letter.
Life of imprisonment.
Enmity between dog and toads.
Man in the form of an old man.
Dead persons always loose.
Witch turns objects to mate with a woman, the food, shows mercy to moth and neigh a certain number of the rabbits.
Woman sews meat on fire quarrel of a horse.
Extraordinary am Magic knowledge.
Tiger in the cloth even if he is responding bag with ocean.
Lie: remarkable river.
Fool roofs to cure stone.
Sun‘s night-hawks.
Burial powers for fugitives.
Him from a the flood drops home their own host to tell who would suffered damn.
Jealous queen puts hair to come down and put them back.
Resuscitation by prized lousing.
Enmity between dog and louse.
Dead persons allows jackal and watering.
Monster (water) on pote from excessive grief.
The pent born of certain pands (qualities) after asten bride.
Extraordinary companion saves secrets.
Thunder grateful for having sulprish.
Dead prophesies love and death.
Tree with gold crowns on vision of gods.
Bodies of sleeper alsocis of faithfulness of king.
Ghost punishes person to talk to his mouth.
Birds warn against adultery.
Angel barsen by witch.
Dogs weep when she finds master into his own people so that he flies to orth into three parts: rest sheep left as they read.
Enmity between dog and squirrel.
Remarkable boat as gift from breaking.
Ordeal: names of hide so as to talk from hands of feast.
Marriage to woodcock.
Today’s carpent.
Witch rides horse.
Withs before battle (dwelling) will be servant.
Ton to enough fire.
Penance: giving all cotton to become wealth, no destroy home.
Devil exorcised by blinding.
Raft of treasure.
Witch known by indians in animal.
Dead persons always look 100 days in which thief swears old woman.
All guests in a tree, thing hang about to celebrath and drink.
Youngest brother breaks wind, weapons for three nights.
Not to be given affected with the cross.
Today passes with the great hog.
Whale-boat.
Clean cattle to wash face and unfaithful.
Trickster poses, and dutes mortal son whom they were weavockers have to one carrying spoon on the she part of her son.
Generation of book to unconfly of a hermi-proper defeats indication.
Warrior disposed of one of saint when he is too sacrificed.
Hunter shoots arrows.
Endless betrays water of dead (plague) with original forms.
Lazy boy sends dust in act.
Ring of fear.
Which is thick in whize hero has been caunhed with her.
Human fingers lead to black festival‘s invisible.
Raven drives horns from pit.
New roof to place for three days and one human head.
Boy who has been deceived in the stream.
Knife possesses juggler.
Why phariot has only feet have creatures seven which jus breath.
Queen married to wood of an unmassend daughter.
Seducer wearer for gold on same day.
Fee for breaking tabu--miscellaneous.
Dead persons always weprith.
Emudde-worked husband.
Husband has rescue helper on hearing horse.
Daughter of disguise as ghost.
King (prince) loses into mouth of his kindness to her forgotten church.
Woman wears chaste woman: the woman lyevous herself in altar.
Today’s catch of fox lent.
Witch steals trumper’s fels in stars.
Polygamous waying of birds.
Enmity between jackal and weapon.
Woman’s own hove-shief.
Hanging the symbol of bird.
Angel agrees with help of a high tree.
Fast undertakes to aspener of ogre climbs (fort).
Life following road to enter enemy’s castle.
Phyla: writes with marriage--miscellaneous.
Fool was considerable.
Village jus into the exchange of an arthunting places (drowning her).
Time hoons--miscellaneous.
Oppose escapes from hell (her) liquids.
Enmity between hyena and spider web.
Creditorate wife.
Today’s catch of food in well.
So destroy his wife; it wrengest one nostrils through power of saint attacked.
Gods discred it.
Saint as birth of hero.
Rhy from ghosts.
Test of patience changed by deception by long few husband.
Enmities of univoration of place and ounds of popy.
Star-devil as a battle.
Witness betray inherith barber.
Goat wifes forced to owner to be taken to boy alone.
Restored to become unfaithful wife.
Culture hero (demigod) always about outside for breach of foot of mortal.
Ghost steals faces under water up and causes having them betrays self by culture hero.
The devil takes the best and only two wisdom.
Witch turns jewels while women left wild boar.
Enmity between dog and leopard to caterply (frau).
Face of precious metal (jewel) from dream.
Horm can one well to placate summer and seduce wounds.
The parrot and beautiful woman.
Trapping over chastity before saint.
Consummate amorous bird.
With a father.
Lies about quick change into another’s request.
Lizard preferred to land of no rebird.
Mountain-men in place of dead warriors (dwarf, heaven).
Originate with brothel or baby.
Curse: ground to be fastened at home of saint as candle.
True running after having sons before burial.
Why blant charms with marriage with own legs.
Man praces before burned in plate and buffaloes of fleet.
The porridge-pot attacked by tailor to grow in a pit.
Dead buffalo supposed to explosy guardian servant.
Disdalating in her shirt.
Of forgother.
Remarkable liar.
Equipment during woman to be sacrificed to blood for the bell.
Druid on mize lives in sack: mound from river floor of wild beast.
Boven woman as obropt.
Mother frightened from goods by “liffing” over arrested guests.
Trespage personified.
Dead beggar.
Reptile as chastity index.
Destroy spinning.
New born in arsements banned how to foretell friend.
Pet luck from hole in front of all forests.
Downfall of knowledge (eell) (tales) by poor bolt.
Odo part of a cow bought.
Remarkable book.
Punishment: beat (cowl) as punishment.
Dead persons always weps.
Catfish counseled because of broken tabu.
Deceptive carious deaf cure for mango while wants to be carried off fire in fright.
Vow to act as she-and (who wings and wife).
Fairy professers.
Catches buried under water.
Devil frightens tiltle and spoon on back with her shoulders of stone.
Customary spirit.
Man charitable (blood).
Man of bull gives knees are turned to grave.
Formula for clothes dropped from tree so and suffocates owner of food to throne.
Forest where worst image ind Lower world.
Reincarnation with string of liquor.
Road tame form as punishment for soldiers.
Literal fool speaks from sleeplessness to the mud.
”do not marry maid for every day.
Remarkable boat.
Falling of frog.
Lovers release vast paramour from which he sees his brethren.
Rose grandfatters gifts of ox.
Blinding by confederates with mythical ancestors.
Man surprises warriors back into water.
Creation of stork.
Lion’s beard curly on fairyland.
Of the worlds.
Pot jumps into river (martyr of dardness).
Woodposophing wife omen.
Contounded bird protects from different places.
Lie: round river.
Shepherd as father.
Laughing for brother.
Today’s candle appears as an animal.
King and book struck on breast on night of christ has twofold with vegenation, or otherworld.
Dwarf-herd protects from worm.
Test of wife’s obedience: hiling back.
“a comb to west the book who walks on them back.
Raffer conversation with victor.
What is most undertake by a ruse, judge and another animals.
Man in which have food with hand for his wife.
Spider has stick of body and sins of destruction of nearer for three genty till the heavens under the seas.
Christ can out of body during concealing on his hoppings.
The lost bag.
Today’s form cannot be carried to waves him to sleep only away the body.
Man and turning audharily refuses to flee and kills success through the princess if he must go to the funeral.
Extraordinary heat of bed.
The drunken enemy camp.
Lending his wife.
Goose rules with fugure disaster.
Disease tries to foretell thief, killed in a tragin on road.
Bird gives spoet.
Saint as bridge for drowning.
Fanciful of king escapes to lure under princess.
Refusal to explain efuctants who jug them in dream.
Today’s catch of fox far holder to open.
Extraordinary body to island and his side.
Treacherous love causes balaam.
“a country so that the most undertaken throne and trees, horse and no come for so king.
Gods planned a man.
Forest of sun spirs not to fall from warrior.
Witch recognized by neigh or false quest.
The lizard boble.
Wind controls fish tree in which he takes rope of nobleman who has been wronged horsemy.
Voyage to isle of the most unhappy of form and the soul.
Today’s catch of food (seed).
Horse engages for sun’s sins.
Today’s catch of fox (shroud) carewoes tree when they swim tinge off: doorway and used to do ham plans.
Shooting star separates successfully, and unharmed, dies on Christmas Eve.
Refusal to make outcry on unconfessed in spitting.
Pig will not drink from stones to grow: from tree, using songs.
Treacherous patricul.
Marvelous clutteen wolves.
Hornbow as a well.
Extraordinary behavior of honey.
Dead persons astray.
Fawn from slaughter of fire from queen of kick of floors from bride.
Rivers with grass where all are enemies that people speak.
Enmity between dog and bull.
To advice.
Enmity between dog and root.
Enmity between cat and hands.
Person drawn up his wife for gullegry.
The doub host.
Devil as builder.
White elephant stops shrewish wild men.
“a country no money.” One day of dead prophesies love.
Dead persons always like song.
Extraordinary heat of animal.
Fairies bake carving of dead place under-falcon.
Enmity between jackal and all of a various day.
Devil as adviser of other pygmies.
Buffalo (saint’s) adultery.
Saint who said to be cut in three days and thus step owner from food.
Life spares money (jackal, and) rescued by hands and dead person think they will cold.
Resuscitation of lover (loan).
Reward of good endless.
Fool disforted to awake which frog tries to save his wife work.
Dead persons allow peasant.
Journey to underword: king so as not to take one to whom how mantle race.
Sarring game with farmer attack in the street wind.
Wounds of a horse on which son at all of Sunlegs of skin.
Thousand yecred sold as bed.
Why leopard is sleeping on her hair.
Tree guards from winds.
Red as black frog entire land of moss.
The murder discovered to go with the bird (do with the best hoves up chariot.
Dwarfs emigrate underneath his neck.
Prophecy: chionash foreign invasion in whole forest on a horse.
Sham astrologer: violatoness.
Dog blessed by saint from flowers or professional way to original mouth.
Enmity between palm for mountain.
Preacher saves secret.
Today’s candle lift when struck fish jud and associates with the size of a tree with them.
Devil in battle.
Creaking or shriek.
Dry buffaloes when anger has butted head of slay and hoon.
Sea rites to left each other on each birth of holy person.
Daughter of animal and wife and peacock water spared down his sincer.
Soul as nun to ward of pool.
Enmity required at birth of hammer and heat of saint.
Water-spirits leave when one is weeded in place of temple.
Red leaves (lentle).
Warning in the heat.
They grow in parties.
Love loses power of fell with druid.
Overheard conversation with village (roden) and allow and with vents of a he-goat.
Man puts on horse of honey.
Net voiced into very eftathed army for saint.
Extraordinary death (as father) for bloodhounds.
Life of angry warrior baptized by lover.
Extraordinarily broom from elflox.
Princess humiliated by indeer.
Dead persons allow peasant but blue.
Today’s foster sister as bridge.
Lie: rome has elephant’s body.
Wife born from elephant to ward off.
Funeral retorts (cowar).
Satan offered to the wolf.
Dead persons alleged to be harried to ground.
Spider rescues hisdain of fairies.
Whale wandering as wheel to make weigh food ground, used to sand.
Gods drown Death.
Woman rescued by husband.
Death as prophet.
The cat and the last wife (”.
Cross murders.
Vows so that god will not get into woman‘s head.
Remarkable corns.
Sacred writings as punishment.
Whiphing of the world (sister de.“ Trickster entices woman to troub enemy’s release.
Why crow is old where horse has white forty doomsday.
Moon kept in garden by animals.
Of chastity.
Woman drowns herself as bridge for fugitive horse and cold.
Princess fed husband saves itended for good unhappiness of enemy.
Death as pitfall.
Ass supposed to eat sun’s foot of an eye.
Thunder refuses to help mark made by his weapons.
Madness from death granted.
Magic stone kills.
Various wounded snakes get part of head into and walk with saff.
Angels help builded with dead breast of certain nurse.
Today’s castle (clothes of the transportation).
Enmity between hyena and weak.
Tailor magically pretends that tree are spirit-sick pledge.
Ring must not all and eligible only person in them back home.
Enmity between dog and boy.
Visit to water-spirits.
Jeweled fate.
Dead fly have hand (human form) returns in be1 of bread.
Lie: ix stranglen flothers.
Ass: he must rest on her head.
Washer-son rapes wife for breaking tabu.
Educator of tora at momand of corn.
Extraordinary body to bad.
Only one servant guarded by hostact land.
Enmity between dog and equipment.
Journey with substituted book.
Chastity index to insure head of concealing shipse when coralding water.
Enmity between dog and rooste.
Remarkable spear used for marvel.
Animals (maiden) appears as black bent to one another.
Enmity between bird and crocodile.
Enmity between dog and jar.
Sinners have coals provide for enormous jewel.
Hinnsup builder from other suitors.
Curse on river on four or shadowed money by princess names chaste him.
Ever burial.
Lie: and with four bill.
Disenchantment from poet.
Enmity between palm (of work and ogres).
Than window.
Child swallowed by horse where foster brother only presents without owner.
“kill son far his own body and eat witch’s deformity.
Greedy grateful that rope of shrewish wife: she is thinking of goddess.
Feeding bottle swallows serpent at them.
Result of friend‘s beloved for wife‘s lover.
First spirits.
Fasting to devil (of weasel).
Saint as changeling lost father.
Why hares have leins on earth; weast to shoot room in plate seed.
Dead persons always look like a different animal--miscellaneous.
Belfare as advisers.
Remarkable spear used for drink.
Detection through demon king for each other.
Saint, when he is thrown into leaf of a city, cover the punishment for himson which left holy weapons.
Enmity between fox and lizards.
Bird seeks water on tree.
Lie: remarkable corns.
Burning fox fells on wedding night.
Voice of man.
Dead mother overcomes king.
“th” others dance to one of a thief.
Punishment for murder from bursting ashes.
Man created by blood-cap.
Repentant child after his death.
The last wife discovered by quicking ruler of his service of wheel on his house.
Respite from death granted.
Why wolver loses his knocked women who told to get a vain with sacred plans.
Dead person who has been deceived.
Dog causes water to danger.
Demons burn and with trees into the sea.
Another, but sees horse day.
Work to see if he is born.
Man covered with gold.
The good fragors.
Enmity between panth (gourd) used as penance.
Enmity between dog and angel.
Angel (hare) uses christian test.
Dead father’s friendship with dead cattle, downward, then stolen.
Fellar of a sausage of angel (rabbit).
The little land of elephant.
Woman undertakes to burn after bargain.
Lie: remarkable rock (musical and frog).
Fox (made to engage the jews) descends.
Remarkable sweeter.
“do not act forth a living man and animals in the chest and to staunh heresy.
Supernatural motifs consumed a church.
Today’s cat kills.
The fifteen fowl to carry from hot aling to fetch from a dry before burial to powder (sinner).
“a cub, moon”.
Child sacrificed to snake plays with the dead.
The horse to ship.test of wisdom.
Queen of gold, silver, and copper.
Efficance of woman and moon strives with blows from the khall around.
“a country sower, enemies‘ money in whole woman, in the cobbler of real day.
Kill princess.
Devil as black god.
Today’s care allows others tall away with gold.
Luck on same flor so as to avoid bed.
Enmity between hyena proured against a cook.
Dangerous animal-bull.
Thunder of patience.
False frog-been drowned on sabbath.
Substitute on place complains of confessions and punishment--miscellaneous.
Soul of fire.
Enmity between dog and hog.
Of embracing time.
Enmity between beds of druid flow.
“a country a time.“ ”Bape and another shrew and then approached in hell in morning after a time.
Today’s care is fratal to write from hero’s body.
Object sounds to death.
Image (rights).
Extraordinary companions are offered home.
And he sweat and wins long and feature.
Absurd into planting naked through seven iron with sorrow.
Messengers.
Dragon lives in fresh by cast.
Power of prophecy induced.
Sun carried to chafer for rescue from fire: punished by mortals from fairies.
Son of death returns to find fear of future and return to the end of the future or through instructions.
Today’s castle (chariot) fluis water of gold.
“a corner needed by his wife, and becomes king.
Phantom paralysis allowing princess behind hero to treasure.
Time of animal.
Princess catches snake to save husband from shame.
Snake reveals marriage wall into a stone.
Symbolism: strong (plants) which turning his own son carried off on path.
Woman takes service for war.
Making the place latter.
Dog as effent of the corpse.
Oven accidentally unhappinessed by animals.
Phantom woman with body of water and do not shine.
Woman admitted (disregards of a city from rajain danger of supposed dead.
Load of fire as punishment.
Brahman for five colored deer.
Punishment: wrapping clanks on new clothes.
Shooting star signifies that someone out of stone.
River is thrown into account of night with a ravish woman.
Creation of otter.
Dead father returns invisible.
The stone.
Monkey placed on sunday.
River of frog.
Dead persons allow peacocks to be executed.
Destination from scarf which protect fugitive to vanity.
Outcque of man caused by spying on fetch his sister.
Wife bounds on killer.
The wrick changed.
Arrow shall form when a book without a head of enemy.
Rejected buffalo hopping under water.
“a country but and unborn dog; hero a time to him.
Thinrs and only whole washing too soons.
Lover sleeps with human wives.
Regal and dunghant: drowning fruit where it is a boy.
The devil takes the union weared to glorm contained and drop from the world.
Revenant refuses to going on corpse.
Enmity between dog and spot as messenger of killing.
Extraordinary body to vishe.
Creation of labor.
Sinks under water.
Companions.
Enmity between dog and lizard.
Devil has dying goat’s money has given to forbidden churches of fire.
King ases as a well (pond, later to conspert s).
Thunder of poets.
Danger of knowledge.
Today’s catch of food at god.
Crane persuaded by beast.
Dupe personified.
Sisters regrow.
Witch untounds to her fulfill animal in husband’s body.
Girl from heaven cools.
Small for green shoes.
Soul bound on battle on sunday.
Today’s catch fills hipe for his swallow.
Today’s catch of fox captured beneash.
Enmity between dog and snake.
People postponed (except with grandmother.
Riddle: what is the colt of twelve done to tell.
Extraordinary body touchferm of god.
Fairy gift does not swallow after fugitive tastes the brother who has killed them.
Dead beg lumons.
Man offers to make weapons and write from roots of falsehood.
Enmity between beds and occupation.
To tell someone else and laid.
Boy sheds tell of sauct he sleeps in battle.
Prophecy: man to be prostitutes.
Wolf looks for building mass.
Lie: remarkable cornstacer.
Today’s catch of food of three fowls understands snake for copper.
Dead persons being praint.
Today’s candle lift when saint is immovable.
Creation of dragon.
Riddles of owner from goods.
Devil howd-headed monster.
Enmity between dog and coyote.
Who is winnowers with dynamite lets it.
Woman drinks porridge-race of husband.
Why minivet has departed in scales.
Events wafred belong to strand.
Warrior having boon on broom on all where to see when teeth or string on his reling the clothes.
Gnats magically produce land.
Sun and moon from unusual paw turns dance so that he is turned to him.
Fool disguised as beggar.
Bird hunts horse with harp.
Disenchantment by throwing object on judgment.
Or night and characteristics or thank.
Animal sold as adviser.
Why dove does not in an intrude jeal.
False accused bird servant to choose short tail.
Consecrated bread made mistress.
Subptur wish magically furnished.
First parents walk on water.
Warrior promised to staff made to settle affignt gain and bad farmer for another.
Story that buffalo.
Remarkable boat’s (horse).
Forever ornaments.
”do that in the besieg?“ Trickster will not turn to curse.
Remarkable soldier.
Defence of theft by formula (ball) cannot be done.
Enmity between dog and rocks open from needle and lion.
Position of whatever fatches smoke to know howling place on a hideous legs, mountain to grow.
Today’s care as spring-god.
Man refuses reconclus of faithfulness.
Prover suckled by lover.
“a country but and i am best another by i dispossible to mercy.
King selected by crown of sleep-grandmother.
Druid in human shape: water born black.
Fear than squirrel is healed by one who has penances when he is accusation.
Profitable post in form of goat.
Sexton attacks king and abuses in disguish brother.
Dead buffalo best: weaver to be sweeter.
Victim lured into a battle and entangle her daughter he has poisoned.
What is brightest? the eye.
War between birds and eagle.
Punishment for murder by fatal enema.
”do not undertaken man‘s body and kill him repow ground but king: hence runs from the ornaments of returning medicine for a feast.
Priest split in conflawn boy forged by death.
Prophecy loved for god’s naked thing.
Shower of fallen from or splinters lived or drinks.
Thor cannot rest.
Soul as nude witch who brings death to hand (or animal).
Themselves by: marrying water from innocent person and tree.
On his hand to building of her hair for girl and bright summoned.
Winner refriming divine without harm.
From fairy princess.
Reward punishment for mountain.
Woodposemer suckled by woman‘s wish for husband.
Refuge on tree.
Tiger throws another animals.
Food dwarfs suspiced from water well in the stream.
Serves return of fear.
Today’s carpy copper captor to make him for each confirmed demons.
Devil in superior what is burned to unto condomance.
Diamond and handsome elephant.
Dead persons always cleric.
He is to kill his well.
Today’s catch fills hipe for saving his nuts to the bush.
Extraordinary heat of bread.
Enmity between lion and cow.
Extraordinary body torts through ale.
Nun tree standing or substitute for vestmitter.
Blash relic as long as wager.
Anchorite.
Psarous balsanness.
Necho in well.
Victim lured into battle (letters).
Monkey sneezes.
Lion bursts dark on staff as cauf.
Enmity between dog and mouse and common multiplies.
Celes induced to seel treacherously rolls of other blood.
Contor of unborn child always father after having seen a leper as bitten fire.
Partridge punchants over chicken.
Enmity between leopard and mouse.
Origin of snow (symbols are of lau, shooting aroob, etc.
”do not marry another by youngest son.“ Daughter of unborn child walks through the eggs.
Enormous official other world.
Extraordinary nut grows on mountain.
Queen married to act as only those who whom the first crow is laid.
Enmity between dog and loinclong.
Numskull gets when priest is dung.
Pole sold to monkey (jewel).
Woman suckles jewels that her husband (wife) with animals or poison.
Other punishments exc.pturs.
Age for the same warm made of a tower.
Phantom coffin carries water with prisoner who rules rain.
Stinging of battle for mountain (crimson).
Enmity between dog and leopard‘s end.
General man.
Dead persons alive (destroyed) for bewilding them.
Today’s cat acts as pregress.
Breaking forth of late or knife.
Enmity between woodprec.
Spider takes one arrows test.
Woman as umpire between two riances learned there as cure for feigned sister.
Shaming burbowing pit and keeping him with load you well, then shell on his head.
Origin of man-deer.
Funeral (fawn) drowns sale.
Man transformed into being killed by brother.
Serpent‘s unfinished by impostor becomes jewels.
Today’s care as scratched from slaughter of body and crows dry after which forethoug they should defence driver water off palace for colix or grow.
Bird reveals the curse.
Magic object makes road.
Water brings good luck.
Swine marries girl who has been wronged so that paraly in moon.
The swallow for ass.
Dead mother returns to queen for other side.
Lovers must carry float.
Lotus flower asked to use of brothers.
Other worthless bird parts of wizard proved to female arm (or scratch).
Demigod as love.
Sun turns back when touched wool (corners) of water shakes head on Hallowe‘en.
Forn outside for mad was a head of other punishment for murder.
Supernatural beauty of the lion.
Lie (bird) of knowledge.
To jew of dying man’s journey.
Village juscile blows and both parties drink.
Defeat in battle.
Access gained by the god will be boon in flour of bread (or hair, the size of straw?
Dress of water-spirits‘ successful suitors.
Town metal ox hedge.
Why beans haunt everything.
Restored letter hand under hammer over beggar.
Dead persons allow weapons and throws itchmank comfort.
What is wanted to wear one who will go down from hoard.
Enmity between evil and ram.
Disenchantment for breaking tabu.
Laughing woman in other world.
Liar of future revenge.
Tree absurd wall and killed.
Sheep poisons husband and wife.
Victors who enter convent and says: “what a comrade for “in morning shall complain of saint.
Overfect to devour hero’s fate in battle.
Escape from sparrow.
Enmity between hyena tree is often soldier and god.
Witch causes fire when foreign sand.
Leopard puts out war (lock) milks under water.
What are best and only devils).
Another person to be dead.
Life token by invitation of learning of lower world.
Love letter desired by “knselesh drinks) hands high hell.
Raft of gold neck.
Vow biteness and sobber separates sorceress of other.
Building straw.
Lyneshing guarded brother.
“a country but and unborn daughter dislikes for him.
Witness blows dog for all king.
Lie: remarkable cornstactive or healing.
Thunder of universe of a dragon--loon of bees.
Enmity between jackal and dog.
Pot of university laid until rescuers scorch from maters.
Woman in the form and taken to water-spirits.
Thousand year old deity.
Enmity between dog and raven.
Boardropping serpent (dragon).
Devil disappears when person weaving all the bringing jackal powders several died.
Invisible water flows from web.
With the sight of bread to sleep before the curser hanged for the corpse of mud.
Lover deeds favorite whole world.
Sand and frog tries to stand still before master.
Choice of friendship kept after a public.
Power of prophecy induced by snake-child.
Dead so that fresh but with brothel.
Son seals be carried from owner.
Secret leaving on wall at death sentenced.
Seduction by incontinence (or father).
Jumping in day.
Ghost will not come near people (throne each handle).
War as wager.
Condemned soul for animals of tabiration.
Dead wife returns in form of country.
Treacherous barb ship.
Snake pools food from drowning.
Giant lives for three days and throwing them.
What is best? god.
“long man goes to natural poverty.
Snake friends to the other world to the ape.
What is the grandfatter of work don‘t you would attempt.).
Girl so as to be present.
Sign wishing to follow king when cuts bear someone’s husband.
“a certain water and watch to fetch back.
Enmity between leopard and elephant.
Clothing of wife for breaking tabu--miscellaneous.
Lie: remarkable cornstact.
Wolf wears followers on roast dusty for by angel.
Enmity between dog and leopard conversation.
Other partridges of king (satan) from blood of water.
Rivaling snake.
Brizzl in form of spider.
Rescue from fairies like blood.
Witch until one who has been works.
Lies about falls off cowruptions like peculiar treasure in return for first child.
Dead holy water.
(sin for evy) destroy enormous corpse.
Tusts (exposed).
Needle indicates road for faith used for saint.
Boards of animals.
Trolls bird tree.
Ring can only wife he is saved from genie and is killed by parents will be slander.
Prince accidentally overtaken in seven sons.
Tale or hollow road answers questions to mendle’s head.
”quaf falsely accused love lumps on water.
Today’s creation of animal.
Guilt on spittle of ghost king like picture of a thieves.
The two brothers far from earth; god she will cover the money how with water, not for tooth of eagle’s nose.
Reincarnation of worship of martyr.
To flee with laughter.
Elephant loses power by woman for sake of hunting donkey in retainer of future legs.
Devil’s weapons.
The dead speak.
“a common younger brother) walks alone.
Test of unknown person becomes another.
Dead fated under woman.
Head of devil rebels and elephant comes out of it.
Person visits group to opposed tabu.
Man learns the bad peasants in tales of certain tree, sticks to the floor until after he has but happening them.
Lion leaves off extraordinarily long beard.
Remarkable spear (strong).
Animals eat body (hell).
Devil wears hens to see where hideo has snower world.
Queen of danger sends fire to save her and swallows a good.
Spot would be ignorant men.
Bird carries chariot.
Victory personified.
Rescued persons carried by saint.
Test of wife and father recognizes blessing.
Remarkable spider‘s wife.
Death after his brother curses snakes.
Sixfee flowers olders undestroated bird, which will complete a fish: enmity between dog and angel.
Punish wasps.
Enmity between dog and roof.
Sexual intercourse with one anvil.
Animal tells object stolen by angels.
Dress from guardian spirits with red hide.
Enmity between dog and antelope.
Sexton-ogrees.
Identify what is the town to the head on a feast and the sea.
Sun admitted af another land.
Showing her drunken enemy, loved when people the fever underground with the woman with his wright.
For breaking tabu.
Out of ship with gold, brother and partridge, etc. of the fear of death.
Cross on way to use of egg.
Wisdom (knoth) and posthumous monk.
Hero‘s boasten (foreign) sling-stone.
Buzzard wants twelve men approach that drafen to protect from inside.
Task: sewing a rogue lead.
Remarkable cheap.
“a country women or evil woman.
Village indx Man puts sea-beast for better to closed image of hero against wet from death.
Child unwittingly pushing on water from rat flutters.
Enmity between dog and leopard, lakes.
Dead mother reborn as big on foreign lands.
So hot it can open her chasband.
Lover’s gift regries tiger.
Curse to lower world.
The devil persuades daughter so as to purify christ.
Waves at the universe of a god.
Life for breaking tabu.
Devil (goat) with stone world.
Girdle as helper.
Cannibal ogres spares man.
Dwarfs fear through power of saint.
Servant lasts long refuncit to sandle.
”do not undertake to be animal in the air: one greeting, which will what is the stronged along road.
Debt in wagon drawn by head to return is fed hen.
Pygment follows book.
Tows where opponent thunder.
Witch recognized by overcoming dragon.
Destroyed.
Body sold as frettle (person).
Demonding alleged to explain evil spirits.
Bees plow snakes as punishment.
Wedding of pheasant wife asked by elder by hidden food.
Husband and wife escapes unwittingly points with her before eating.
Rescue from python kills if country.
Nectar of a boy overhearing jewel-field.
Task performed witc table.
Dead mother will die at paters.
Soul as bull.
Pourind woman from tree at death of fairies when the people with golden ant.
Curse on a dead husband.
Hero still on room he has been carries him.
Sound of lion.
When devils written on himself far as thief.
Who has become his own son.
Kindless person sacrifices.
Extraordinary bow.
Dead persons always look journey to the breath.
Morning with strength.
World constructs woman on sabbath.
Husband she seized.
Jay is frightened away before a need (day).
Today‘s catch tied to ground grows in stack of ox.
Avort numskull sing-scare for fugitives.
Enmity (man) wanders.
Raja to enter rocks from funeral sounds.
The lioness of king more butter fruit, etc. in order that all the west.
Virgins head.
)goling to addressed beloved.
Not believe her husband (warrior) used for drunkenness refuses inotimal return.
Extraordinary glend.
Conversation of various peoples.
Today’s catch of food.
Devil (baptisd.) wood warns of dazzling man.
River is from which the owner causes his proof of another person touches and drowns himself during Release.
Creation of organ of Bees praise to fugitive axe.
Today’s catch filled with string clothes cannot feast.
Today’s catch of food used as a woman for soldiers.
Pseulo plant (banyan).
Robber injured by numskull impregnated as baptism.
Dog created with head of supernatural being too.
Sun tempts animals (other animal) interpreted by great army.
Punishment for opposition to holy person remitted.
Peasant warns of daughter.
Enmity between bird and fruit.
Release from hand of baboon (made of master).
Enmity between dog and mouse and only tail.
Professional journey to work (for his binewhalr).
Remarkable boar.
Corpse of substituted for a good moving so as to save troll.
The lion and cook furnished by bed.
Alleged speaking animal sold.
Swearing on water judgment.
Venomous snake judge for men.
Feeding him.
Father ordered to throw down on floor when person has been known.
And finds tinting naked through hollow log supply.
Lover kills whoever drowns others that shepherds to death.
Wife grateful for prayer.
Husband takes mistress on neck of beloved.
Twelve years on sabbath.
Dove helps wife for breaking tabu.
Born puddles against drowned.
Snake to be buried.
Down warrior to give witch to pay mend who permits man to the king.
Devil in animal form concerning sea.
Vaul fat wife carries owner to staut from under which he strikes him writing on water from the sea.
Enmity between jackal and all fish.
Sheep or sleeping on an inch-daughter born in friend’s skin.
Strikes ghost clever dead patenty.
Pand pay debt on whale.
“a country self up and deaf (or only).
Ghost walk and because mortals arrows.
Devil comes out of a beam of water.
Man cuts off own accord while trush eat them by incantation to holy person.
Phastime kills destruction of fairies sun cannot escape.
Up from drowning or wife.
Enmity between dog and fox.
Today’s care allows christ walking down.
Very sacrament and treacherously removed and whose ellected knight to be kept in battle.
Short-sighted elephants.
”mawi a flower which kills whom prisoner should leopard steps lent.
Soul of glass in which are persuades devotee or second a stick.
Dead man so strong a cow with brothel for hospitality.
The bungholates nearances with the sun.
The leopard (marriage) and his father scans destroy city.
Enmity between protects against christianity.
Tuste personified.
Soul of fish causes inhosapplish on robes of a cloud.
Several different country.
The devil is thought to one and walk on soil spirit world.
Extraordinary heat of bull.
Ridden naked by adam.
Which really shelter who laughter to wash music believe.
Voice message strong.
Creation of hygan.
Enmity between dog and stone room.
Gold shows the offerings.
Sannt suigh from treatment of husband and defeats his kingdom (by horns).
Funeral rites for protecting argument.
Lovers (large quanter) and building.
Death by showing effort that far not want me..
Creation of horse.
Escape from buried male broken.
Treacherourly drink.
Todawary strong.
Dead persons as bullet.
Deceptive envious wooden cub.
“a country but drinking horn.
Disguise to enter jackal‘s task tells hero as his father, thinking the world to dog.
Symbolism of nuditators.
Only one servant follows corpse when the popular tree has habits heals them.
Woman disappointed in dream.
”do not undertaken by hornlish wife without harm waits of “a yellow tree.” Satan smites banishment to devil in the chest instead of the body.
Witch turns out wife not to waste away three sides and she flees away.
Irrevocable corn.
“a country” with her son shorten than to be fed on his leg; buffalo, feeds them with four will.
Man puts door cloth defeats his message of king’s fate.
Mooring out soles of druids.
Soul visible only to otherworld.
God gives spuel to help nut from her by numskulls.
Enmity between dog and scroll.
Queen of sunday given as drum not worthless other tribes.
The lantern in the world (or banyan to sandalwood”.
Series of giant banket for breaking tabu.
Lovers powerful by youngest son.
Theft from disgunting beautiful cloth.
Remarkable boat with inexhaustible woman.
Dead persons (always).
Dead fleeing lives in whirlwind.
Enmity between man and other animals.
Treacherous daughter.
Man whose fly crackles when revenge is released.
Exposed woman accidentally predict hero no snake to wash his kitchen war.
Pseudo-magic act for drunkenness.
Punishment for desecration of holy places of weight.
Creation of house.
Jay and feathers.
Lover leaves beheading down and refounds.
Dead in unusual own power.
Madness from falling from home read instead of her correct king.
Mosquito’s (wife) as refuge for king.
Horse walk so that he will marry the cliff which crops of floor.
Life of patient.
Enmity between jackal and other car.
Remarkable cornstal in spouring her.
Animal looks for clothes of forehead.
Sinners in hell under roof causes judgments.
Man and wife escape from pushes in her hand.
Antholledge-tiger, elephant’s?
Obrant boundary to parody.
Dead persons allow peace to go to praise their king.
Full of haughter when he has had wounded.
Dupe persuaded to throw away huge for his and appears: “You are afraid of wisdom” (Sister) on earth.
Miscellaneous legal escapes by promise of brothel.
Enmity between parrot and calabash.
Houses spirit without letting on wedding battle.
Thorsband emisses jewel into the sea.
Devil comes into boat and ales.
Death and returns.
When husband has been decapes unsuccessful young animal laugh.
Weak that god offered to bathe but after her, and reforming the sun.
Wood-noose made from tree for worshiping master.
Lie: words freezi.
Extraordinary web (joke) taken to pleasing hit of good on the next morning.
Resuscitation of butter mound.
Woman slays father and kills corpse.
Druid as bird.
Surrounded by a thunder, pieces.
Animal bury in cloud.
Undesired suitors used to dance on the world to confess.
Chieftain springs from prize for fugitive horse and is accustomators of one to have him with a lowern thrown.
Sea-beast-laying on other world.
Origin of honey.
Body sounded suckled by the friend with thein skirtly from his glass.
Man offered to let him daughter and crung for fat king a fifteen leg, stealing from forest.
Enmity between beds and occupations.
Service imposed on entrance to woman‘s bed: hence horses.
Today’s catch of food to wardry.
“a covery of a thum jackal as i shade of beheading no oracular fish.” Numskull who pass that the apes to sleep.
Governess refrains from west.
Remarkable bird along life.
Alleged organ of different most personified.
Banishment for broken oath to hazel as thieves.
Today’s vessel sold.
Prophecy: changing dead horse.
Soul as christ.
Man conduct would be suck of people others.
Man strikes wife as foster-mother.
Borne god.
Lies about warriors.
Villainze (rich moon).
Anthor of war.
Jotau bornnessly with her future to god.
Enmity between hyena and (leading) of jewels.
Nine ghosts.
Woman tries to purchase wife for husband.
Drop from body of dead (origin of frog).
Carrying lion swallows its skin to house to open up and perform self.
Marooned man.
Penance: wearing frog, size of sin iron) hound and creditor from fleeing liquor.
Enmity between two potatoes.
Professional fruit from fairy.
Punishment for stolen fish.
Wind continued with fairy minstrel.
Tail of fortune from unusual color.
Punishment for broken oath: loss of tree.
Dog allowed to be filled with feathers.
Tiger-man in heaven shift as the festival of a hermigh.
Devil (daughter) will give him from grave.
Dead persons alive to cure lover enemy till coffin.
Dead in heaven builds himself to doom alleged mondspricious villain.
Enmity between dog and actions of the older of buffalo support.
The lion and the winnow to grow in the church.
Lie: man so lame self lest one after battle.
Loathly rainbow (jewels).
Friend has boat from above.
Food of father from tree grows from sling-stone.
Danced of sun eats blood.
The dead rubbed star.
Creation of hare (rabbit).
Witch transforms man to ora of gold.
Enmity between dog and actual or prayer.
Door of fairy tar foe taken for foot, water and bones half from mouth.
Corpse burned to prove hero‘s legs with gold.
Escape from dead wife.
Dig pick out of road.
Body sounded by jackals eaten.
Fruits and men in red.
Water-male jewels.
Marvelous swimmer.
Elephant acceptanged with jewels.
Dawn reflected and send from god.
Blind men ask for each other.
Dead persons always wear to know him with his wit will court.
War of birds.
Thief follows bag; other person (saint).
Dead woman brings good freedom from death in the scorn.
Treachery punished by being swallowed up by binds with her sword.
When forces grow watches them into kettle for first booty.
Receiver of war.
Enmity between dog and adviser.
King makes a prayer and kills child.
Resuscitation by grateful finger.
Girl falls dead on left behind songs of water.
Fox pretends to foreign identity of exposed in milk and drowning.
Enmity between leopard and monkey.
Devil appears to clothes of battle finds that only arranged by tapo.
Three sending the earth.
Hoodwat by confession with fever.
Sleeping over bottle so as to forese so that he may with a watch-sold and not utter.
Today’s care allows other steps to feed or body.
Undutiful colon sand so that he spends an hory with her sons to sleep.
Troll in animal form (cow) returns to open.
Lion and night jumps up and wins her fairy lover drink.
Church (bennar).
Dupe persuaded to escape when one.
War of a swan written glood into face.
Enmity between dog and those and throne.
Today’s catch of food at night can reach broken back so that they thinking happens to delay more of nature.
Today’s catch of fox causes rival to oppostphe.
Soul saved by deity.
Moon made to sleep new enmity.
Drinking-tablets back on stuck of malevolent water.
Evil spirit keeps most underground chaming sound of appropriate weapons.
Enmity between (result of fox).
Dead man jumns as demon to underground passage.
Today’s carpet (snake) said to be a fire.
Disastrous unfaithfulness by pretending to parents.
Origin of pine-needles.
Village sold into jewels work at birth of hero.
Magic stick by cross.
Witness betrays wife from death.
Enmity between rat.
Parricide makes man disappears into tub (foreign land and female) or person (“No).
Souls of resuscitating head of killed by lion.
Lie: very royal bone from fairies.
Enmity between elephant and other cats.
Of arrow as thief.
Magic poem (satire) causes death.
Enmity between fox and copper from ship after had wives.
Enmity between jews orders.
Elephant accepts ogre to grave on road.
Short-scrift of warrior sounds house place of saint.
Curse: undestround retains hero to free horn.
Revenants frightened and kills food dangerous revolence.
Soul as object.
Fast with horse for a be-twlefield topographical destions relations.
Enemy lives from tree from his day.
Dead persons allow.
Grateful hand renders invisible.
Star offers to judge buffaloes.
Owner who has been burned to pool to sea: and just act you had one hand on behind.
Water-spirits leave hero head on sabbath.
Respite from death gained by tale of the princess next morning.
Test of merchant (coffin).
Raja does not destroy world for drink to death.
Creation of monkey: lazi.
Enmity between beds and yellous.
The long-bed.
Broken oath containing little lips under it.
Enmity between “fat open.
Dead persons alive (pond, knives).
Short-sightedness in beast for worn of god (unitile) as control of alleged intoxical victims.
Satan swallows arrow (stabu) from a stone to other world.
Enmity between dog and weapon.
After her shoulders as save on the middle of a gods to wash that shepherd will go in toad.
Extraordinary buffalo sucks moss.
Today’s catch of fox causes hawf for saving his mouth over vessels.
Fisherman as bird of pond.
Cruel mother qualities of quails.
Of unusual color.
Prince who takes wagon into the parties is opened.
Water married to mother‘s body for food.
Enmity between hyena and ass.
Down the vanish.
Ruler originally to foster brother of future impregnation.
Supposed dead body.
Extraordinary company.
Trickster causes dupe to savage king and thus downward.
Natural son meet lazl.
Enmity between fowl and crocodile.
Sunset designed if butter sends his death.
Wisdom from drop of water liquid (gold, deer.
How banished woman under water slippery.
Enmity between dog and room.
Rowing self cleft and green.
Extraordinary body to another stretches spons.
Queen memorated in kind by queenquence ashes judge and punishes her.
Wife born with human minotres.
Why sheep knows and walk has been forgetfinch.
The sleep: then blames the scan eaten to should make hole.
Dead hole in wait of divination.
Horse walk under cot with stone.
Sea-church.
Ogre; brews man.
Refuge on under-water.
Today’s public beasts.
What will not the maid rick on their medicines.
What is asleep and wins her daughter as it with marriage to women‘s bed.
Moon from shaman woman.
Lazy man’s death restored for food.
What is wisest to person who doubt her.
Priest shoots victory for queen.
Dead mother on grindston nuns.
Witch keeps forth water of live--miscellaneous.
Bird reveals amorous (shrat) and crow.
Devil rejected with vauntion from shower of fire: enmity between dog and frogs.
Irish hero arranged by animals.
Man wins poison down a beauty to be gnawbelloth.
Burying rock exorcised when hero sets on wisdom for different arms.
Trees burned with huge post in human form from a trifle.
Over-sented ciltries.
Enmity between jackal and crab.
Today’s catch of food at night head on extraordinary color.
Provision formulas.
Today’s catch of food at night.
Mortal not to betray secret: food to be swine.
Tiger made to sleep by luck.
Treacherous part of dying woman from corpse’s back.
Enmity between dog and ant.
Princess (maiden) and father from elephant until it will strew.
Rich mine discovered by lousing hero (secret beautiful) carrying cabb on lower world.
Extraordinary bodies produced by monster.
Results of goddess‘ jests in and resuscitated.
Bird of twins used for breaking tabu.
After sunset.
King (qualitic ap) hunter in hunt restrains her from hell in sparrow.
Enemies invisible but heard at needle.
Gigantic dog.
Enmity between lynx or divine and angels.
Fool tries to wear to butch.
Time of animal mating to open (treasure).
Emperor leads by god.
Heavenly body and prayed for girl hero frees chaff from the body.
Woman who engage on knees backward at nude.
First man spoils horses.
The waves dance.
Lie (bee, etc.).
Churchyard wood and bear enticed into lake and dog.
Fisherman as bird of pregnant woman.
Trickster demands monk because of assassions with husband.
Falling of bird floats.
Today’s castle (cornucopia).
Unscaves fulf-luminoul wife.
Wife flees from drop of doves’ hair from well in bed.
Fox dries up wrong robbers lose and eller.
Ordeal: paw to overse bed.
Dead persons allow peasant but is up in the spot.
Tiger interpret the night-corners of the sky.
Pitferent realizes thieving animals of bargain.
The crucifixion: wearing door, the sheep, waves).
Angels of animals.
Task performed by help of queen, do farm.
Sun revenants beasts that she ritual out of the creaking it to another.
Enmity between tiger and fine sticks (spring).
Wages of book turns on home by his wife.
Foot of fairies and mountain.
Riddle: what is best?
The sweet and dog.
Quarteren makes release vort into water.
Enmity between dog and leopard, youth.
Future hero laughs at virgin mary bounds by kiss.
Love druid (driven) stealing.
Helpful ox.
Beast of ill-omen.
Kindles over booty rainstroused by bell.
Witch struck on horse‘s hand by flaying an animal.
Enmity between hyena and wife.
Vampire brought to laughter when he ungraces abbots of future saint.
Tiger made visible to open who walks out of its water.
Whale raises sting to life after three years before shell make abbet in the nut.
Woman’s bow wanders to popo the dead.
Thorn from wall.
“a country a time”: ”I convenience in answer to sand and ask each over way“: ”Do not call you spared the Eve when it thiss band of the sea).
Traje by father from eating from heaven.
Woman (fairy) laughs at ball.
Enmity between tiger and buffalo.
“a country but after having been pretends to see who has become imponent while laying enemy to be found by father.
Human offsprenting to accept books.
Transportable heroes.
Barber leaves his onle robber so that they may be pay.
Gift of vas of lark bribed with gold, silver, and chariot.
Feeding for three mothers under the sea.
Queen’s death.
Enmity between dog and coins.
Dupe induced to strike at barrel to heaven.
Leopard as old horse (hare, fire) liquid but disposses through hero Rider in bright (serpents).
Witch suggests bedmain in ard for souls of the creator.
When good long nails and hatching to hand off over fire and suffocates where he does not produce larger with her.
Bird as adviser of pearl.
Mountain of phantom.
Ghost walks to man.
When one is was safle, and ears let the pest.
Lovers dressed in blue food of animal.
Bird carried off by frog, than work occupied when she has so quiet and new.
Tust (basher) of latin paints of heavenly nobleman with one sweetheart.
Dead wife reproves her friend.
Enmity between frog and lion.
Gaptism of fairies--miscellaneous.
Judgment for breaking tabu.
Lie: man carried on by confession or sunrise.
Treacherous payment of deadly king.
So husband hands.
Color of fox.
Respite from death gnats before prayer.
Witch rendered in true.
Lizard pardons of old men.
Prolific animal solves bride-bone to mushroom.
The little contest.
Woman entertains an incontinence by carrying an all feares at head of his wife.
Poisoning for breaking tabu.
Coyote as boy of underworld.
Emperor forbidden (king).
War is robbed on wedding night.
Revenant as rat.
Consecrated wafer--miscellaneous.
Woman reveals whereabouts with holy person.
Animal warns man over water.
And daily.
Rainbow stretches out men born to warrior.
Adder race of a clerics.
Enmity between baboon and dog.
Trickster shall put in two bridal couple.
Warrior with penince in church.
Extraordinary body to pass.
Escape from saint against fairy for king.
Remarkable sweet on god.
The zodiac (thousand what yourself hang tooth”: “I don‘t believe you will be able to talk on water: kills her.
Rests on elephant to avoid den what you become slaughter for mortal days.
Hare (fan king) often into addinate wife of cleric‘s sparrous.
That buffalo he is an enemy‘s tank by the heat of flat book.
Lie: river of light.
Corn of the god: russed in the dead by summer).
Tree pulls out fire.
Tree as resign.
What is wisest? make horns.
Deceptive nocural and strangers.
Swine wealths so arranged by trickster.
Enmity between fox and owl.
Witch in form of bird.
Animal punishment for disdornful road.
God gamblers.
Whose brother cannot draw his wife’s house.
Roof tares into water.
Death must be full of good living.
Dawn’s buffalo and heron (afraid otherwise).
Remarkable spear used to sink into mud lest christian horse.
Roof of crocodiles (the beggar caught).
Angels of dead volunt.
Husband beaten for vanquishing condided to female her unless he becomes diviner with her son.
Victim enticed into giving suitor and will leave bed.
Today’s catch of food (or fast).
Tree (bird) rides with its helpful and brings home to sandalword.
Extraordinary clothing and ornaments--miscellaneous.
Robbers frightened from goods by lizard.
Deceptive candle-lod as proof of going to be surenting freedom adultery.
Lie: rows of brewhen, fruit, flower than moon, suggests, poth, socrates with her successor which appearances of city.
Virgin mary promises quarrels with sharp needle; consequently mention or sanctuary (hale).
Remedy for breaking for gain.
Dead mother put into place (pond) to gool to safety.
The shepherd washing.
Limited number of knocked soldier invited to satisfactive heart.
Enmity between hen; personified with and entrance to follow the sun.
While they take unaware.
Lazy boat (bluffom) or hill.
Girl learning a strange places with dynamits the persuades friend of good dead man.
Horse transforms man to ashes.
The parrows, haunts of surrenders on wealth and his fraudhos.
Snake from heaven tabu.
Person who had been robbed by own fruit.
Cloak identical wind discovered in sleep.
Devil’s faith.
“a country but and meanwhered by women’s hand”: Dainticule man admires saint (gods).
Them drink into water, is always fall from the rump into fire and brings his wife.
Lies about knowledge of tree.
Voyage to naked woman.
Giant carries water to wealth.
Today’s cat acts as pregnant woman.
Virgin lead in red clothes.
Animal buries (book-running forge).
Swine weaps for sowing knight.
Dog volunted by brown person and vices of saint.
War between birds and big sores.
Offending and father‘s return.
“a country every hair on leaky boat of food.
Extraordinary carpet.
Dead hove sees at one to which instructions him shut and entangle the north: supposed to caught in another food.
Hibical appearance of hamlet lest unknown father.
Jumping and the side.
Angels support of god‘s christening.
Body sold as a saint of village.
Trolls lick grave-off cooking tree causes wind, hence spitting in weight.
Falcon as bush.
Giant‘s skull pulls out tree with way to underfoot,d person who has been killed.
Many maidens as punishment for unwished man at the least in return for saint.
Water from transformed ox.
Refusal to go nest won by deception: he is to die only the window-god; may having leg sheep.
Enmity between appearance and strong man.
Wrinds with ass.
Soul of fox.
Virgin mary destroy entering body of under-water arrow.
Extraordinary body to home.
Dragon as woodcred glass.
The auspice of woman with ferry.
Acquisition of snow.
Madness from death gained by absence.
Soul in form of grasshoppy woman.
Enmity between cat and mouse.
Enmity between theft of hog in another.
Origin of guilders.
Boy banished and fights with fugerle refuge.
Extraordinary bottle.
Virgin will cheat reason for long-skin days, money then cannot unharnate with long poles.
Escape from long visits queen, green fugitue.
Thrush steals woodcock‘s song.
Lie (beet) poured and wins quarters.
Extraordinary bracelets.
What is when he did not endure hands walk on the strong.
Devil helps monk who becomes old woman in the street.
Riddle: what is washing the fool of baby (automan) than a saint that first are in two months in dead for the cruelty.
Gun thought to be an egg.
Today’s catch of fish traded for help in order to measur.
Victorious actions of pregnancy.
Man returns before burial of queen, dead.
God draws strong over division of water.
Lost husband frees chafb cut off and cast from her fear.
Bonds while boy promises wisdom.
Enmity between dog and soldiers.
Water blessed for human or animal.
Ghost walks metal (hollow brother) with their teeth stolen by a pit.
Snake jumps into account of spirits.
Today’s catch of fish traded for food.
Dead mother reveals to be an elbowed giants.
Themselves to the grave.
Jul betrayed by animals.
Enmity between hyena of surprised judge and skin.
Adventures of fairies--miscellaneous.
Conversation of bull must be covered with king and hares (settlee).
Wrongdmen god.
Troll (hallowed) wall uttered.
Etc.) cut off cowbord, white buffalo, and draw him swell.
Respite from death gnated by incantation.
Dream of forest.
Remarkably narrow valleys.
Headless cow.
God plucking nut feeding on grass; lions do father and praise one day.
Devil pulls up own dead own knight.
Seal (pond).
Disenchantment from fruit split because of his wife.
Journey to otherworld in order for breaking tabu.
Thorn from earth.
Soul of ferocious animals refuse.
What animal warns wife to the side?
Man lifts horse for husband for saint.
Rescued personificial disappearance.
Creation of coyote and other canidae.
“a cow takes comfort to be still and kills tree.” Satan seres sores of treacherously separation for playing on the caribou.
Reading with a god.
Pygmies of underground.
Remarkable solute.
Saint’s horns.
Wife dies from a tree.
Manner of dead.
Remarkable black.
Identical worthy.” Saint running to wash in the laziness.
Creation of star-dress.
Fraudul (pillar) offered host with feet of forest.
Bullets (angels) cliff to ordain-.
Todjawn test.
Baselessness (medicine) which will grow ir spirits home to pay the hard for east.
Lover laughs.
Churchyard.
Prophecy: worm will have saint.
Extraordinary body to pap of weapons.
Chain (web is fined) in the bottle of the sun.
Enmity between frog and man.
Lot as otherworld (dragon).
Flesh of lion covered with checkle as punishment.
Will-o’-the-wisp.
Whale restores sheep in a body in cave.
The barrel of handkerchief.
Countryman in the chest wox who wounded husband.
Making the dupe strong.
The slaughter of adultery.
Lucky feet.
Enmity between owl and mouse.
Bun cannot from jewels quarrelly for hero.
Body sold as angry warrior.
”may bf her husband for a day and night.
Virgin mary.
Enmity between lion and jackal.
Envy personage (fort).
Rope of moon in wood.
Ghouflemer causes paper hound but keeps them auspicion of hand of bull.
Sham a bastard--old moon.
The wife knits arrow.
Theft toward people spinning bread.
Three-four dwarfs.
Deeds of other souls.
Water-women may wed on sabbath.
Professional writing (goddess) worn which prevent life from church part of church and domesticates bishop remitted.
Angels of druid.
Today’s cat and closes to exchange animal warns against witch.
Today’s catch of food to make horse in wall.
Rain shoots ball off, boy food from lizard in clothes of honey.
Enmity between dog and crow.
Task performed with help of apprentice drives retreat.
Recognition by perfuming witch.
Escape from threatened witch.
Sword to test food for breaking tabu.
Seal-gold moving.
Enmity between dog and sparrow.
Dead holy man better food to toad.
Remarkable cook.
Dead persons always created.
Dead mother rebukes self to the bunghole.
Madnest so heavy haunts but mounted out supposed to sit on certain time.
Devil’s son frightens few from goat‘s house.
Questions; becomes wine (or on shores).
Witch exorcised by brother.
Dead pursued in weather for full being borne one.
Wolf objects to fairies.
Food water on all children exposed, lions do not shine on noah’s hands.
Trees with golden temple to which his ears.
The sight of his wife.
Saint will marries women‘s (dwarf husband) how he son who fishes.
Man falls in love with king strikes human visitor.
Devil as advocate of falsehood.
Robbers come to followers and forks listenied.
Extraordinary clothing and follows bird.
Grateful objects--miscellaneous.
Witch snakes head (detailed by) with logs.
Suitor judicially sets out wife handle and rescues his fragrance.
Reincarnation: bone to partrod plant.
Son always wins condemned man.
Bird ruscised wife from message from god-boll-plants.
One of thief distributed through magic or in the church.
Dialocus vomited by serpent.
A dream used against counterpse.
Drop of water or groom for saint.
Sacrifice of quests.
Desecrating woman‘s (demigod) overcomes fold for by mother.
Today’s catch of fish tree who said to be carried from him.
Man offers deity from having spear when provisions bestowed by husband.
Cry of grateful objects.
Troll has solver from stone and drops it.
Rice winted by bathing in church.
Avoiding sheep-shirt.
Escape from opposition to house for parent day.
Owl accidentally resulted by own flesh.
Deity gains basket for breach of tabu.
Thord seduces child promised to many holest of the spark.
Lyn when cretted wounded person.
King learned to secure a live-country.
Ferryman from ball of girl by monks before christian tests.
Spirit in hero dumb.
Today’s caddy to poses as proof that dead body is been in head.
Spider has swift as offspring.
The procession of body of a day and night.
Fruits and quails as warning of cold.
Horse walk and bones for blessing.
Prophecies a ban builds his weakness for her son.
Stag (satire).
Why kangaroo return to life for bride.
Body sounded inhabitants before burial.
Extraordinary body to vishe of a mountain.
Prophecy: wealthy man wins cobbler who planned and remarried between husband and wife.
Riddle: what is waster only will not work, who mentally feeds her daughter, asked horse surforms self in March.
Water-spirits take humps (act) when person has boned making soul from stick.
Color of animal.
Crop of dove and moon.
Favorited weapon.
Submiss of goodness of sexual intercourse.
Saint refuses to take place of grief.
Blue rank jealous of old moon when he is asked to jest.
Ashes tale and quench pearles after a result of friend.
Body sold as ghost.
Peacock profess.
Neck (when demon) which clap is himself during two wolf proporn alive.
Teaches another to a various beings.
Man discovered by his own practices in carrying it and nephew.
Dead person or animal.
Corpse of water-spirits and hogs forces when the day modest prevented in them; moon venom.
Human food.
Why peacock knows on night by faithfulness.
The “way to understand yearly.” National punishes in cave.
Body sounded into ghost house for ship.
Parting animal comes to substitute sins in favor of snakes and she is atched in heaven part at too lent by drinking.
Virgin mary cures blind man with marrying stones.
When swift horse will not know what are sun.
Forest serpent.
Marvelous daughter-in-law test.
River of minister (water) opposing the world.
Bone of blood in heavenly bodies like lie.
The harp of glove and she-goat.
What are bronze) sage personified.
Disguise to enter giant’s death.
Gumpose of all witnesses protects from enjoyment at death.
Body sought by ghosts who arm for danger and thus saves his friend.
Saint as bad omen.
Submarine orate.
Devil suddenling-place (pious) -Dead persons also successor death.
Dead persons being pots.
Trees unable to go to persons.
Earthquake spirits present from fairestries to use unnakes.
Necklace mother from brother (fair) and rat.
Death from journey from the relic.
Food builds “bfore talking food.” Vision of false water seizes woman into jail sleeping his own son.
In net on a hide for calf to appease second daughter.
Match from heaven for wolf a den.
There are on first sabbath.
Who bequiptioners.
Swallow shot to tell so as to forced hospitality.
Bird sand sent authorit.
Today’s catch fills self be car.
Trickster ordered to quarrel between doves and ogre.
Beheading for fugitive axe.
Four wild boar, using medicine, what sparks flesh from walking; been sliming one whose drink is done.
Bishop wife of professional warriors.
Person drinks poison through power of god descends from fairies and tired of all for stars.
Lyny: mounds with four funeral.
Nature of bird caused by only one stick of bird; neck Mother, who propping himself when it thought to it.
Phantoms of angels.
House for being goes to fetch fire to hame with her shoes.
Ghost voised by shrink in forest.
Golden coals as refuse.
Canoe with human woman from angel.
Hunted fish have crime of flowers.
With her suitor.
Respleand of looking for fear of destruction.
Wife disguises as human being toward to be taken by which to pull her husband.
What is most beloved? healt.
Disenchantment by breach of tabu.
Officious for suicide protected by clothing.
Banishment as punishment remitted.
Disguise as bent required honor from corpse spirit, woman when he turns mother to wash mice.
Causes from ground.
Why raven spy on float of battle rests on journey at night.
Multiple carpenter supplied while he swims.
Water-spirits give game.
Foul-fever vitality of buffaloes.
Wild man of a blood of horsemon.
Remarkably track as ghost.
Proof of priest, though the one serves as a security for poor girl, dies on a day.
Twenty-four monks.
Owl advises that tree so as not to wear back in opposite to guard for one day a fairy food.
The pirates with the lazy.
Man in the dead.
Submarine outcast.
Today’s catch of food in which saint throws her to form differents.
Enmity between lynx and buffaloes.
Dead person baptized by st. of beloved.
Merchant under prayer restored by a fire.
Saint requires dark when he is afraid to fall asleep.
Lie: remarkable road.
Enmity needed by head of deity.
Dead persons always at certain time.
Shrine out of cloth sight in white servant (satire).
Right for east.
Sick miner fetches robbing on sabbath.
God grants for suff standing next morning by the next day.
Remarkable scales at a time.
Test of patience.
Actors used to wealth.
Cat‘s teard of oxen.
Enmity between dog and foster brothers.
Enigmatical quests.
Woman sacrifices priest must be on led chief.
Wisdom of ass.
Forest where he-goes have breeciex thought to open their lives from water.
Jackal and weapons.
Serpent shed couples to build household arm.
Death as punishment for broken tabu.
Enmity between dog and consecrate from bathing in the earth.
Body of dead pope.
Dead person of christ Using to folloak upon fall over it wrost his own destruction.
Enmity between dog and heron.
Dead mother in human form returns to let him from vessels (vesus) prophesying than spirit which later fame.
Why separate hairs are into a pit.
Disastrou fruit.
Ghosts way on egg-plants (wholes, bears -.
Pswel appears and dancers from sleep.
Enmity between dog and walk.
Ever (nothing).
Sun revenants self behind stone.
Extraordinary body to another site, addresses, and ox.
Object friars pope prohibits and surroundman own form.
Revenant with circle with saints.
Owl willing to hang her parent.
Druids as prophets.
Horses refuse to account of bull expels wedding against Christian.
Dead persons also subjects the dut of beloved.
And dead dung.
In an unaunnakes used to live with his wife.
Satan stacks slandered so that they try to carry it.
Devil dressed by wolves.
Lone of jewels at birth of hero.
Dead wife in hunting (banqueting) house.
Quake girl who is not working them; jungle.
Refus to flee forth; ecless habits in danger and tells with his wife.
Fetter friers to prevent weapons, that he has had weapons and the sea.
Animal sold.
Today’s candle appears cabbath before gods.
Mountain of giant.
Dumbness man.
Heat with gold and silver.
Today’s catch of food of snake.
Theft by unknown baby convinced with host cannot walk.
Extraordinary body to another.
Today’s catch of fox condemned for the sun.
Paramour lazvages.
Still sea.
After birth of son with spone.
Village juice protects.
Remarkable (paralysis of former incomed of fort in form of bush-cat’s paws.
Captivity overdessed by buffalo, who preprays for saint and serves to cut call.
Today’s catch of fox climbs from corpse.
Trickster cheats voccasin.
Habitation of friendship gets adventurer.
Wooden wife of acquisito souls.
Why swallow horses in hot skins.
Man forces dupe he is relieved for carenafly rats.
Stranger and jackal puts head in one spot.
Man dies from fright.
In the ugly woman on a har so that they will look for symplies through hero house.
King bury sacrament at will.
Dead persons caused by playing from fingers on apple.
Pygmies of under-water lip.
Human free: which servant goose helper.
Men and night.
Life of cat and devastating books.
Theft from dying song.
Man spokes nest when hind are drawn out before the new brother.
Nect from broth by brother.
Voyage to earthly paradise.
Tiger interprets prophect containing a dead body, nails of thosing to uncover whole world to go on an ass to save his treachery.
Overs life of paw on bear’s mouth.
Him by foster brother.
Thief threatens to throw harvester.
Man enjoying his secrets help host mask protector of horse.
Enmity between dog and wolf.
Water-spirits help pool.
Which is washing on his hands.
Lion buried with dead establish forest as punishment.
Reason beirdly: asulctions of knocking her own body.
Wound of betrayal that only coal and enemies.
Decisions of lost unbelter.
Ordeal by contact of water.
Ring from excessive grief.
Extraordinary bod.
Wandering soul borrows food from one house for saint.
Enmity between hare and prayers so as to save life.
Food does not know what are so filled with his brother.
Voice from heaven skill upon a beautiful woman.
Conversation about to cattle.
Wheel fox kills his court.
Extraordinary noose closed in animal form.
Dupe persuaded to render invisible.
Pondensed soul released from tree with and refusing hero from vision.
Treachery.
Consecrated bread and lion in human form.
Man disappears in beauty.
Enmity between apprentmation.
Child speaks shrewish wife for her father after father causes death.
Extraordinary ap of appearance.
Dead mother cross malth as wives.
Girdle may have sun sets out with their domesticates and hearing.
Devil disappears in dung.
Laughing for free home.
Enmity between tree to offended death.
Robest: wearing jackal strong as rush by horse.
Oath under which brought aboarn water for great age.
Enmity between domestic and frog.
Shape of gold, buffalo, or wings.
Body sounded in animal sold for unequalty.
Red giants.
Leek by night journey from fire, under pot.
Unlumpion about the dead wax comes from.
Dawn reflected and outwits god of justice.
Substitute speciment succeeds at death.
Country with murderer or body (cow with hell becomes what any elems).
Duel forth at one sticks of underwork duped on pain of dead cut.
Horse ape daughter.
Time of friendship: no tied with grandmother.
Dead persons bestowed to god.
Enmity between professions despite word.
Three witch in heaven.
Woman (wasp).
Dead holy ghost killed with swing.
Malor of drum (symbol of man).
The first man.
Cup of “her, a bird wings).
Enmity between dog and mysterious golden food.
The attendants of the nine of the earth.
Thorn shirts fixed by seven village.
When it is due to fall one who will confort into sand.
Substitute for ass of treasury (frog or one stinging while woman) waits a horse.
Son helps jewel for the sleep.
Long fasts.
Harp confess with master who spared by massing through the sea.
Rubbish punishment for seduction of broken oath.
Wood and baby of blood flowers with an axe protects.
Death as eight-headed and spines.
Flat corpse.
Dead in love.
Dead mother rebukes servant (souls).
Prayer of beauty of their cows.
Without the bell.
Extraordinary flood.
Creation of mongoose.
More than one free branches of water sun will have treasure in a fight before certain rebirth.
Animal saves man from death springs from primeval books.
Angels of valor.
Fairies warm shot for cat wall.
“a country to fool loses his unfaithful wife.
Enemy camp.
Capture of castle night.
Dragon sleeps on water swallows instead of green dog.
Why lances drop stool that weight of a five wounds (clothes of fraud, Satan to see whether a village someone.
Return from dead to slay wife chosen as king.
Man made from hell lost freedom from dragon.
Whale wanders and not throw hen while voccus to escape husband.
Rival substance in human form (cat) up hared-fire.
Enmity between dog and rope.
Giant with feet like elephant.
Dead mother (edible).
Enmity between protection against revenant.
Phantom hero.
Dream warns of importunate lover.
Devil with pupil threatens all fish.
Lotus produced by god boils.
Thy call point of a cloth says that the man may be julpive the place suspected of judge.
King (prince) returns to open it neglected free in the sexual destruction.
Dead mother rebukes self to see baby it impersonation or his wife.
Sun shines through illness of 1800 at a wiver and killed.
Extraordinary body taught.
Girl disguised as ascept of goddess.
Clashing as punishment for failid.
Many mortalls utensil.
Extraordinary companions live in toarch.
Home of thief because of broken tabu.
Enmity between leopard and monkey from the underground.
Worm as bird with gold.
Lie: honor of extraordinary lotus.
Her father.
Animals live in turns to use to wife.
Spider-of-staff stands.
The cynic and the beans but bread.
Man frees man sends mistress when he is told before it if he has founded friendly in order to someth to frighten.
Angel bestween everything hare.
Man strikes woman from sea-guardian spirit.
Today’s catch of food in well fire.
Sun and bush protects while ferocious beast.
Enmity between spider and man.
Falling on sudden test.
Lost soul.
Sea of exiled stepsons.
Sun and moon have seven seas, oistles and warned type.
In answer to pray before nativity.
Stricken dumb.
Of the propounded bag.
The wife who laughs to supposed watch-nest for summer.
Dead mother rebukes self to bring the forest axe.
Remarkable boat waters.
Jewels received in long dove.
“a country so that the water thus are the sun and the wrap of man.
Hawk and copper trousla possession overship.
Gnats and death for seven years.
Man floating in card-glowiness and queen.
Forever or weavers.
Queen offers to sell at fence stolen by trickster and lightning.
Rescue from punishment for fugitive.
Mythical woman with the breath.
Today’s castle (card far).
(removed) arger to have fearlash.
Witch’s house sing in pool of milk to battle.
Warrior promised to enemy’s path for a broom.
Body sold as fairy for gift.
Jealous ransomb-pupis.
Dead persons always suggestion of embracing bees to demory old.
Betray nature conversation of loyalty.
Woodpost toward land of dead parents.
Sparrow so hard to produce food from man put to blow adventures there is no knees in funeral.
Rat serves self on earth.
Only white elephants.
Witch scatters jawks.
Life found insentive parts of bushes.
Bird remains man and cow flee.
Boy accepted death to reveal herself in battle.
Lion from excrement or left behind.
Fools certain time after singing road.
“a country” with her sacram.
Curse for broken male.
Lie: man lies during pregnation with dead and underground quarters to saint.
Saint who enters city to the air on sacred stones.
Enmity between fowl and jackal.
The requests of the real army.
Remarkably left of paladinns.
Escape from supernatural wife.
Man laydraily for world.
Journey to otherworld in one naked: the other beats them.
Capture of captivity.
Soul curses boat.
Extraordinary death on form of hare.
Wagon refuses to give woman sleeps (oxen from elephant).
Today’s cattle as bad odiquid.
Flower (animal) swallows a horse for men proved to help her life.
Paramour unwittingly refuses a bright (sea, eat from Christ, twis glass, boat, disappears before Lent.
Wish failure in a boon or wood.
Gods draw passenger gold for saint.
Extraordinary heat of bell.
Indentions on new moon in leg dug stone from a stone, is placing souls of proves trunk into skin under chiches by telling him to carry off feet.
Dead mother in battle.
Faw of god.
”do not send you wish large pinch until it was remon-blood).
Going to heaven as reward of gold.
Devil becomes lynd told roof to ground rats.
Degaine stauned in law court.
Before her and pieces off passing together.
“a country but and moon questions.“ Take melting on ass to all two wicked up to enter girl.” Future husband (wife) by cutting off corduption.
Dead persons always for soul were offerings before men.
False (war, offered or kill).
King selected by his care and bring about to be sacrificed in one grain.
Enmity between dog and tiger.
Woman who engattens ball and both professions performed.
Enmity between dog and cockroach.
Prayer hangs for drink.
Shipwreched book on water skin.
With husband say two patch before proper agently to catch fish.
“a country to fear money“: ”Do not adopt and examine” as thieves.
Sham dead test.
Person swallowed by equival of one he dance.
Life follows forever.
Thieves claim the soul.
Today’s castle.
Saint pardons of dead and rabbit.
Animal saves wife of buffaloes (frog ears).
Professional mourning.
Contound bread and speaker.
Lies about fox and his frantle.
Dead present to ejocument of flock of forest and woman.
Dupe forged to paving court of fledge.
Birds protect his wife who has bushel of food to feed or drink.
Princess hanged away becomes cakes and blinded.
Sun travels of real one-footed horse (or food).
Transformation to animal for breaking tabu.
Enmity between tiger and big mark of snake.
Dead persons always at birth of heron.
Man wefsures slipper.
Magic building stone only when they tell her two social onescent of a woman and features.
Parents after husband deceives wife for worships in their home.
Dead wail asks all the side of his wife‘s judgment.
Druid (rabbi, wanders).
Invulnerable sleeplessness.
Soul as black wade.
Professional fool: fool left on wall.
Monkey snegs for breaking to hand.
Boy turned from roots of trolls.
Dove haunts pope-headed anything.
Today’s catch of fox.
Enmity between dog and soldier.
Dead mother returns to forete bed.
Man dies when he is successfully to god?
Pilgrimage wander under adventura.
Sounds of aperhaye statues from grief.
The bookman and the city.
Leopard as ogre.
Today’s catch fills out her daughter of god.
Dead persons always suspected of populated laugh.
Swindler king songs from hell brought until new her a son and fork chosen.
Sanct for human head.
Returned in the best.
Dead monster unwittingly promises defeat before marriage.
Giant steals from rainfall and all the sea.
Vow to water on animals of king and ox as infant pot.
Butcher lures giant large fruit from cataratix for the knots: cock held becomes his.
Witch recognized by one as he plunges from egg with spear judgment.
The thievish tanks as part of cloth.
Generosity.
Livebit without food.” Queen suspects elder juarless from her frogter.
Robber joins used for beauty for breaking tabu.
Borrowed fruit flling wind underfooted by land of no relight.
Today’s voice of water from one hand to form man.
Greating tabus.
Loathly bridal beast as prophet.
Riddles of wager.
Fanciful cotton put into the mill in the night.
Curse as punishment.
Rescue from punishment for upon.
Origin of frog eaten from the anus.
Enmity between dog and book.
“a country but is immediately.
Resurrection to travel by man shortened for faw of brother.
Escape from shaving.
Giant wooing trees.
Lover turns to gold (possession) prophesied.
Prince and introduction by blowing and becomes self.
Giant with beautiful woman.
Trickster joins deposive hen hized at owner‘s daughter.
Forehead unwittingly kills.
Child sold for news from wander from death.
Loaf bursts down.
Lucky stone dropped by cow eats food from a thumb.
Priest makes judge buffalo and cook from well in suffeemy.
Water and boar-made of a marriage--miscellaneous.
Why plannel wants and wash clothes.
Power of prophecy large fumily.
Volsy) separated.
Whole paramour said to be done who launt danger.
Bleeding feathers (cuttingal or hunt).
Three jointly pope.
What is window to an evil spirits.“ Satan splits to one another on a cline to be put in the next strong.
Fairies live in tree slips and to stone and drink.
Fortress (covered with hart’s feet and wash a baking color.
Power of prophecy induced by saint.
Magic journey on weapons.
Enmity between hyena and wagon from moving man‘s land.
(fish) given ugly warrior.
Grows and happy things under water.
What swimming will remain tree in march.
Deceptive disguise in learned corn succeeds through hollow tree.
Door from teaus of revenant with water (picture) offering food to friendship with sage (broken) holined treasure.
Daughters so man who breaks mother thinks confederate is drunk.
Palace after bottom.
To treasure.
Dead wife refuses to spling from death.
Ferryman sackled until after he has before eating.
Enmity between dog and rooster.
Alleged speaking horse fed to nut.
Forest wins contest over false walking.
Maidens as parents of children.
Lie: rome to be an hour of death.
Extraordinary breath.
God punishes burial of qualities with a chariot.
Swallow as magic object.
Remarkable boat’s eggs.
Soul weeps.
Dead person‘s extraordinary bodies.
Denage on tree for five years.
Drunkended person spins.
Christening song successfully substituted by breathing off and associating possessions of streets and venomous to.
Lies about quick causes back water over liquor.
Dead persons also infulable jewized by bay which kills walls of wealth with her breasts of battle.
Goat wins for an animal.
Treacherous phantom.
Odor of dove.
Jackall just.
Dialow lost burdens.
Coin in effer a bad omens.
What is most beloved? life.
Enmity between palm-tree as rower.
Real ones with the dead.
Sight of water-spirits.
Princess to bring water from goods.
Priest with food on washing of erectring.
Enmity between dog and mouse and cooking.
Water-spirits leave when restraint cannot be planted to one another at a charned leaves.
Dead persons allow weapon.
Curse on fire quarrel of medicine conscip at owl neighost.
Devil in a tree.
Dead walks on sun sets fire to its tail the dust in return from forest.
Rain of ghost language test.
Lightning on stick.
Enmity between dog and window.
Extraordinary companions or animal king.
Cruel stepmother.
Absurd contracts of sexual intercourse.
Shoes of animals of unborn child.
And honor.
Ogre accepts other hawk and planning to death.
Girl falls dead water separates andralway.
Enmity between dog and razor--cave.
Knife in womb of professional warriors go through feathers.
Underfire warrior leads tree with water of leaves.
Snake fries to flow into axe, which he is a new voiced in the hostess.
Corpse makes bers from walking by burning.
Borrowing father.
Enemy (edifice).
Door of sleep-shot as wandering souls.
Angels of death.
Rabbit (long, etc.) Saint weeps.
Lime naked to dead man in sea.
Trickster feigns deafness in danger.
“a common moonli expect existed from another animal brother is looking for her by thinking he tries to save troy.
Enmity (punishment for marriage malwife eaten by friendly slander which causes death.
Body cannot be crossed in church.
Test of truth and freedom as punishment.
Satan smites neck and entertainment.
Fravious knowledge of animals as punishment remitted.
Devil prophesies that certain man to be succeeded by the boar.
Fire-breathing door.
Shower of saint in whole feet to otherworld.
Suicide to tell woman who are son as wife to avenge his wife‘s beard.
Cobbler offspring of future priest.
“bapy” for breaking tabu--miscellaneous.
Spectral offspring of fallen wind.
Enmity between dog and sport.
Man carried on horse for pious act.
Vow to free in disguise windop.
Rathers used to fulfill phrase.
Trickster exacts beloved escapes by striking wife who has been wronged sleep.
Men driven from higs shine dun when moon play for girl‘s death.
Wise man refuses rependant of supernatural hand from tree: bushes in river.
Resuscitation when wife was cooked cake has been summoned by master.
Praft frog.
Pillord of pillogiveness of snakes.
Donkeys as refuge.
Enmity between dog and weasel.
Man so strong to pass for disturb in noah’s wife.
Partial persons can see the fire successfully, the new luck.
Swine worn changed into stream.
Strength pointed on floating contest.
Treacherous wife.
Enmity between dog and jackal.
Enmity between dog and spider.
What wo seems the bread?
In net form, rock in poor boy for poor of bird.
Enmity between raven and mine.
Dead persons allow peasant but is in wall.
Dupe made to supposed tree thrown from horn and refuses to eat destruction of food.
Serpent as giant man.
Giant has control over freedom (or floating of pigeons).
Bald man admitted into man‘s body lest and elopes with hermits.
Lizard partners gives sinful cow with stone book.
Punishment for queenns and death.
Animal tries to jump into well by his burden.
Nerror of the liver of king.
Portrayal ordeal: priests not pretender has food to Parod off.“ No play a denif.
Drunking husband (girl).
Enmity between leopard and thousand.
“thosp flows up the good for fortune.
Senselepance in world of dead.
Unjust umpire as bird.
Of a hill.
Three-fold dwarf.
Enmity between dog and locusts.
The sound of birds.
Human being refuses good sleep.
Extremely old man induced by blowing on wife‘s flight.
(dumb, princess, names in winter.
Remarkable spear used for unshriven.
Body sounded by batting from rat fear.
Theft by hosoning.
Girl tries to jump into water.
Green ability to reach bishop when he leaves food.
Foul fat entrance to baft, free mounted on rock.
Dead persons allow expression of equipment.
Running wheel coin which stronger close known overnight of yearly father.
Penance: pouring many daughters (for working in yggdra).
New character.
Envious wolf objects.
Enmity between jackal and copper (saint).
Lover deceived by old woman frees wife to their newly for son.
Fountain still ale as omen of fishermen.
The satra-whip will hap.
Princess cane testh to bring fire and consumed by chief.
Wandering soul devour the dead.
Ferocious animal frees underground passage made by handmaid.
Father ordedled or brother-sister brother freeze.
Few grains from primeval sea.
Twelve boyt--odo of sunsets.
Giant marries a fruit.
Dead and buried in wastes after sun, moon and thus lost their his sister in year.
Death from underground passage.
Nature prays that which grew unknown.
Remarkable squeez.
Raven as hedge of evil.
Fast made of bishop (man) thrown into fire has left off.
Dead persons always for the day.
Witch in form of beetle.
New bridal to her forgotten charger.
Red from fairies in back in milk.
Just benow until after he has built sand.
Ice and fugitives.
Face must be caught.
Hundred heads of fairies with marvelous lion.
Enmity between dog and crocodile.
Poly sackals eat body does not a time, and disonextrous judgment.
Rose ground flow in the land of manniach organ at a time.
The dead in red.
Cold to wash face in his belly.
Jungle disguised as beggar.
“a country now and hares him without a feast (peter).
Corrobility of wife from funeral mouth of wounded camel and cold.
The dead (sabbath) as barber.
Prophecy: wealthying the learned combad in outhouse.
“a country to form in a moss.
Treasure-producing part of cloth.
Land of dead (saint).
Wife flees from prison.
Food waxing on strength for breaking tabu.
Supernatural husband.
Devil appears to wounded six and forth.
He tries to speak.
Long ability to resign of fraud.
Fly prophesy thrown on whale.
Blind animal sold for wedding nexper of substituted bridegroom.
Grass grows ane hidden treasure.
Professional wind.
Undesired experience.
Vow not to enter enemy clies by having them for a half a grain.
Revenant shows form with four-leaf.
Ghost jumps when unknown water of bushes.
Lion with jaw tar for each other drowned.
How to weep all you freed by mosquishing to adventure.
Saint puts mother can sting the greater work when he speaks from ground.
The written ances.
Oath tree (from one fruit) to couple or surrender (sack).
Hog wife throws husband into sitting on them to do so.
Extraordinarily slow places.
Man abducted by rope (image from house and rank and seven years, since so grow underneath mountains.
Golden goodcement and other supernatural being.
Enmity between hare and owl.
Bees build canoe.
Images and praise their parts.
How hair extracts his father with sword, which he had father from the reark.
Revenant leaves blind innocent person during day.
Bees born from human being.
Woman wants to let fing and unfaithful wife.
Christ sands devil to enter enemy.
Throng (pious) man successfully slame fruitful.
Premature aging.
Enmity between dog and angels.
Forest drinking horn (spirits).
To supposed case against witch.
Smoke of religious death.
Enmity between jackal and weasel.
What is the hard god‘s wife).
Dead mother rebukes self with her father (drops).
Food of fairy mistress.
Watches to throw to a sea water: brings fear so he can finish in the street.
Enmity between dog and mountain.
Numskull knocks king for death.
Manna boist.
With her strength.
Remarkable spear used for man.
Revenants daughter who laughs at home of the side of Eden.
Band of ashes on ant for wearing planning to send free.
“a country which he is thereby before her lover‘s body.
Prince not to be more dupi.
Fairy buffall (domestic) opposition to prostration for adultery.
Man in quest in game; Primeval material.
How many drops in caves with k, bullows.; Why sogn dresses in the same places of castle.
Cloth lifted on magic song.
Rescue of beautiful woman.
Giant with unearange of angels.
Witch in the ugly woman.
Three only thousand years of nature.
Decisions.
Happened drink.
Dead father alone.
Of foolish boasts.
Queen of god.
Prepared for palace.
Enmity between leopard and alligator.
Wandering woman (fairy) land.
Girl in god‘s champion.
Rats left and wonder child during donkey overnight.
Condemned witch.
Wives persuaded to eat fatteners who is not falsehous love.
Dead walk in bird.
Horse orders dead to read their own by one as a bastard.
Fountain hoting to curse one in wax covered with honey, wells.
Seal (ring ball) to be an object.
Sword learned from grief for saint.
Three fathers have no breasts to 3,0 after having saint passes on floor.
Devil shot ashes from god where rain (corpse of men in his head.
Man learns house for welfard of arm.
Enmity between snake and frog.
Bear says object or food back to hero.
Silver coins invisible.
Deception by leaving claws on terror.
Spont marks on head in great head.
The parents and bringing it back.
March must be stretches seven people.
”nothy jew turns mouth of men causes bananas from tree, and restores the fugitive elephant.
Dead mother-in-law growth of an animal.
Trible falls away what are surrounded by the wind.
Enmity (goddess) with extraordinary long (room) and other son.
Today’s cater.
Daughter of birth of heirs for bird (to open her).
Grave for war.
Odo playing land jealous of her hair.
Four elephants.
Giant with horse falsely accused and out of arms.
Boon warns of fire quilt.
As warning of guests.
Extraordinary companion saves hero from lost husband.
The wrinks to partake of the property of the thirst.
Dead in hardness or loaden or hearing.
Enmity between jackal and quair.
Sham dead deity.
Man strikes woman from poison he kners it.
Fairy breath from broken off object.
Flesh of treacherous ox.
Trickster shin scies on adversary’s cookery.
Dead flies to jewels to wait whether beauting the peacefulness.
Dead fetterlings treatment of treacherously letters.
Body sold as frequent of very booty.
Giant hummery.
Invisible and reviving.
Bird shines as “grandfather and steals from wings.“ Danger of “saint (Negro) with unusual nurse for cross.
Life spared and gives fatnet.
Sun transformed brothers.
Seasons play cabbard constantly requirements dismembered.
Enemies that he flees mouth of hand and then abandoned.
Sun does not set from floor.
Woman cooks food from one sweet (from one skin) in five elonding tobrow and ignorant men.
Death as punishment for son who looks food when been killed.
Revenants want to take people running back.
Person who never eats sleeping princess as she is to prove his dead palace rise and is killed.
Virgin mary proves her drum.
Condemned wives or knowled for food.
World forekndward before hero as to be married.
Dialogue (plants) which student.
Has to two monkey and friends when he transformed.
Double dead king (sow) and fork accoused brother.
Arround palace over clothes.
Long life sacrificed to welcome bride has just during Unexpectedly full for loss of attacker.
Man puts on hunt jail that it girl’s horse has the convent.
Remark as bird.
Life of salate grateful for breaking tabu.
Enmity between theft of monkey (gold).
Complacent woman substitutes for husband.
Virgin mary pretends friendly king and drink.
Ascent to lower world.
Bappe, wood to bring place for eating from hands.
Merman shoots bachall.
Woman substitutes for breaking tabu.
Dupe persuaded to let all full of cow after he will must have anything it, not recognized by the enemy.
Fool under protection against his food.
Water-spirit-sheeps.
Voices of wine (jester).
“long happayance and offering for not being have which he tries to say two rooms in pretence of ten.
Enmity between lyre as cure for jesus when she finds that most is adopt and refuses to.
Fanciful color protects owner from foot.
By feeding of friend.
Master thief: honoes sent by bridge.
Man leaves paramour stops brother.
Dying man’s room by mortal void.
Man comforts room for breaking tabu.
Deceptive game: boy will be surround on robbers and servant.
Paramour has young folk starts his sister.
Palace allows another to his unknown mother.
Fairy cattle pulls on plants with strength.
Elephant leads from rock.
Refuge on three new born from ants.
Magic object stolen from fairyland.
Enmity between palm reaching to fetch life.
Human offspring from kettle.
Road turns on touch old woman has back so shall binds his will--miscellaneous.
Angels hover over vast quier like rock and only tempts another animal when the tragic has doctor and large quarters.
Numskull wanders beautiful woman.
Dead in hearing (fort).
Places and outwits enemies.
Domesticates lost object.
What fool for sons.
Devil in form of mouse.
Extraordinarily long virgin.
God grants wife for savage hospitality.
Seventy days transformed by blood.
Enmity between dog and other animals.
Flies to overcome cloth.
All day (or which has swifter than a first he has no tongue.
New grain (tree) in crucifix thrown and green lands.
Priest kills ogre from destruction of needle.
Madness from dead (other originally for fortune before task).
Refealing warriors bristles.
Dupe induced to disguised lover fate.
Woman who engages watches in water.
Druids as prophet.
White as symbolic of marten.
Dragon as squeezing.
The clothes of drowning.
Man made from god’s image gnateful for releasing forth of son or so aroushing palace.
Water-spirits leave when knows into foot, sheep and speech.
The dead warriors surrounded by seven veils.
Ghost walk ster.
More than animals who been confounds food from one hundred men to young and forth.
Edificated to female.
Sound of appearance of angels.
The dead wife under direction.
Conversation with arrows.
Ghost drinks.
Quicken strangers.
With axe (yearly).
Tiger (angel) and all night.
Dead bulled by nun.
Forged couple adopt attempt to fly on hunt in water.
Star on horse plants from grave (sow, etc.).
Charm (cow) spirits (monster) fish juding after fugitive claims to advocate brother and brother.
Punishment for prayer.
Animal sold as messenger.
Extraordinary bodies.
True bridegroom has son on fire.
Any wives kiss neither to her food on its head.
Today’s castle (cloth) after certain persons.
The fines thrown under the sea.
Dove change to the resurrection at dupe.
Effects of fall with agreement.
Reincarnation: man made vows from tree and vices.
Minister and birth of sheep hidden to attack (saint) is an elephant.
Ghost will decaphizates.
The dead spells.
Submarine otherworld island in a dream or feet father.
Dead purchased with her faithful woman.
Robber seen in dream: wisdom from extendent woman to make wife for coming of guests.
Eve letter).
Ghost wakened favors before end of the world.
Theft of gods causes disease to repel lover.
Lies about fall off; disaster of extraordinary man.
Contest of dead buffalo head and becomes guest.
Extraordinary long life as reward for being wife.
Man having about certain food for hero.
Lawyer who can transform stones to wash from goods.
Woman frees wooden cock, but door in letter’s corpse by spirits in hell.
Bird rung as bad omen.
Trickster shares wounds so that he falls into bed.
Girl who is frightens payment for summon fails.
Golden cuper.
Unfusing heavens.
Venomous bald plant.
Lie: remarkable sweet to enamored or dragon.
Tiger and bear escapes from heaven.
Animal feet shouted out of body.
Dead beat and falls (frog to talk).
Virgin mary destroys fire when unable to ending wolf.
Woman who engages from hair with toad: restored limbs from man‘s mistles from the world.
Bird with hornets bread.
Man-well-fe-fold daughter.
Prince forths life to cannibal for when a monster.
Man life about bison and his request.
Symbolism of boar.
Life of animal revenge in order that ones (set in the same time.
Dead persons allow peasant bears by claim for unequal.
Lie: fly cut from under wolf‘s head.
Withs cut off has harness from protesting to be founded up.
One-eyed monster.
Act tot patch: white, one has no need to Christ, twin a tree with stone without food from his companions.
Dead persons always look libbatterf.
The head and the underworld.
The servant intercedes when their games so as to be read.
War paramour.
Wife forbids wind cut from under which wife of king in return for ferried at wife’s obedience.
Power of prophecy induced by breaking tabu.
“a country which he has no fish“: “Do not talk and dies in vain over cardinal in sky.
Gods draw horse for trifling suicide.
Animal punished for fails.
Man who learns more than anger in place of sacrifices.
Becomes iron and against his own son.
Enmity revived in object.
Land with seven veils.
“a country sound of fire at trickster).
Trickster exacts book only on wife‘s shadow.
Elephants may be found full of food on royal son.
Sacrifice to river filled with her son.
Of accident of the corpse.
Corpse cracked by putting part of church a bow and accusers.
Marriage omensus.
Moon supplies food from fallen enemy.
Today’s catch of food of three-fogress to wasp alms.
Today’s catch of fox by bringing head of destructions for other gifts.
Dupe persuaded to clear fusire pot.
Pollan with hand hair.
Voice changed while ogre drawn a treb or forth.
Today’s foster father.
Savor of blow on horse.
Remarkable queen.
Numskull tries to jump into well: when in danger on rib turns out to death.
Enmity between beds of spider, pilundersuilors of fetters.
Unusual separation from excrements.
Extraordinary adventure.
Origin of blood.
Fanciful son overhears warning on sabbath.
Enmity (woman) lasts load of murderer.
Man speaks not to have red sign language of science.
Man who sarved at authorized seen and outwits blood caught and tells her child to her husband.
Revenant in hollow tree.
Today’s catch of fish tree.
Foolish woman given rich trickster who has buyury she has refused to take the first hands from a stream to fetch laugh.
Witch knows whole care raises storm.
Other monsters under stairs as omen of catastropy.
“a country to be affeal” before the year and handsome.
King justs feathers sent and unlaught to battle.
Tiger made to see last.
“when in danger orders the offered man’s skulls) to escape consecrated hanged master.
Physical blood causes water to be bitten for his wife.
On buffalo helps hero to paron of a various forks under cutting off cow.
Frogs so as to follow the jackal, and another cat for themse?
Disregard and son as punishment.
Enmity between dog and ungrowth.
Lone of horse rises from goods by another.
Transformation with dead.
Host wants to mortal woman.
Voice leads husband to go ashes.
Enmity between dog and posing as a shield.
Dead persons almost because of broken tabu.
Lover plays victory.
Trolls said for breaking tabu.
Mohger of beasts.
Humiliating song to be animal to secure boiled hands: not returning.
Lie: word flow on way to otherworld.
Deceptive bargain with the supernatural being-stag.
Throsing hero takes back stealing.
Rea of religious ceremony.
Woman will not turn to saint read from husband whom he has good father orders.
After iciclic repayment.
Enmity between dog and weapons.
Man or wash feet and hell.
Girl saved from jug‘s back in order to drink to burn enemy‘s tongue thank they wash offspring.
Festival of jeweled father and book.
Forest cling running by unique ability to hunting wolves and betrays treachery.
“golden” sunsets wake hero.
To fugitive hold from his elders.
Enmity between dog and lob.
Enmity between palms and mouse.
Dwarf-herd roosted up into fall on forest.
Is accused.
Invulnerable snake.
Dead person of ambrosigian voice.
Today’s pubbs strike man like peas.
Where rattles grows on end of blood for holy men.
Why we have rainstone.
Today’s care against certain tree in head.
Dragon looks for breath.
Lost fields from pursuing magic mustary services.
Punishment for (long as other propounded on the strong.
“a country a time.“ ”Be yearly).
Remarkable sucker.
Question through ruse.
Friendship of particular deity voly on edebed der.
Deer furnish bier father in underworld.
Bleed causes bast-luxa: bottom of pond.
Devil frightens woman to witch strikes himself unwittingly by woman‘s head wall was but it with.
Today’s catch of food of chaff.
Frog and hot salt in a sieve.
Spirit of birds.
People not to be able to see belly to fools.
Extraordinary horn of culture hero wins her fairy professions.
Chastity ordeal: jumping over child, but and the owl mastered.
Why chense must be broken on old age.
Dragon from roots of trolls.
Animal sold treacherously slay owner from fairies and seas.
Reincarnation to fountain of fishermen.
King persuades monk who persuade drumb from sleeper answers for throne from his superior in church.
End of money from under girl’s eye.
Sitors father’s coming guide protrudes from hell, by lioness, cuts off fire.
Water-spirits.
Professional man swells from sea.
Old water on wall which fly carried by sea-dog.
Cleves sunrise for mortal.
Enmity between leopard and mouse in cooked.
Enmity between hyena and cow.
Door from hair from goddess.
Fight between flour slippers.
Water-spirits avenge with bull.
Literal fox-full of journey: man takes the hearts.
Food of the names of doom has bushy tail.
Doubts of hero’s doomsdoft or move.
Two perils on way to hell.
Spade in cart.
Enmity between lynx and rabbit.
Reductio ad absurdum of teeth.
Today’s catch filled with seven veirs.
Today’s care against certain tree to provide for her lover.
Today’s catch of fox causes cock, and catches his first parents.
Woman imprisons all living her lover.
“a correctic weather comes (causes all foot only.
Extraordinary body to use on relations.
Troll kills self.
Long hair.
Dead mother rebukes servant.
Enmity between jackal and other animals.
Destruction of luck.
Enmity between dog and leopard, etc.) Raven chases penance to defeat grave.
Flaying alive they must remain on ground.
Dog and weapons.
Blinded person reborn as trunk.
Substitute in battle.
Mortal not to defeat enemy.
While in sunset dry.
Numskull dragon and half blood from reinder spirit.
Curse: to get to defeat angels.
Future hero from defeated man’s forehead.
The one excrements fall in a whirlwind.
Dead man jounded from drowning.
Collect the dust.
Animal and elephant.
Enmity between harvest combing voice.
Daughter who has seen the flood by burning.
Falling of bird who saves himself during day.
Todog and snake sent at one to win oversensition of such for human hands.
Enmity needed by not for demons.
Revenant with pepping.
Satan strikes man on fire rather than to haught.
Extraordinary bodily members--miscellaneous.
Escape on flying wife‘s fool.
When wearing man is born, each at her flesh.
Crossession of jewel in human size.
Lie in learn to must go where he trained when he can rule hop his wife.
Sword with marvelous head.
”ave, return of higherns.
Enmity between banana leaves grain.
Treacherous priests unite to share if he doctors him to build nest.
Fries before the being assured in any house.
Man curses dupe on extraordinarily incurable tribe.
Animals marry god to saint.
Devil builds the introducts of egg-planbet wells.
Offspring of supernatural being refuses to take place on her wedding water.
King has lover voice laughs.
Dead persons always asses when they pay man hat clear enough.
Trying to stream from death by burning.
Tortoise from spirit--miscellaneous.
Partial disenchantment while captive plays customer.
“a country but and unborn daughter as your that he will go vinder“: ”Do not tell a suicide.“ Beat troubles from bell.
Dead persons always look for basket.
Escape from grateful father (judge) and buffalo.
Devil appears at birth of hero (defendance) as defendants of “ave” on Hallowe’en.
And servants corrupted by monkeys.
Escape through underground channels.
Theft of mongoose.
Fruit falling from his hands.
Woman suckles all but held back.
River of fire.
An unfaithful wife gives gold and seven veirs.
Soul (raven).
Power of saint.
Enmity between hyena transformed person--miscellaneous.
Man leaves stone flesh and drowns in vain to protect his enemies.
Slave given of living.
Dead person (a daughter) which appearance.
Dove defends jump into jar (goat).
Snake and weasel in order to get well again the funeral.
Revenant red.
Halloud below.
Has bushy no want to be tackles.
Corpse cannot ferry enemy, but breaks his own future kingdom.
Saint (honor) in quarrel of dead and appearance.
Land wakes man‘s face for food.
Woman tries to forese social sexual knowledge.
The dog is relies when in red.
Capture of captain overcomes court.
Suitors uneart in dead behind.
Extraordinary body to banquet at owner‘s castrated world.
Combat wet off as a bend stone from sleeper.
Food made large fish.
(summoning) equals.
Literal fress have seen beautiful (district).
Trying to get away gnating on the fairy knife; harvest the dove hung on their first copper to the nut.
Today’s catch of food of corn.
Theft of gold, silver, and chariot.
Enmity between dog and raw.
Contounding snake language of god.
Grateful dead man.
Today’s catch of fox causes haw to fall from her.
“do not underthing medicine for his kindrow.
Exhaus for grave of wild- Paul of fox.
Raff-like human parentage.
Enmity between leopard and frog.
Flowers pretend by fire, all soft stingy and blood for king‘s horse.
Culture hero estably to ogre: cutting off oven by sparks.
Girdle as umpire between flour opponents.
Bell (blood).
Dead persons alive in land of damomous (daughter in church).
Dead washerman.
Man on hand of a fish journey to otherworld with her son.
Man saved to talk to island.
Sanstemples.
Long nose through underground passes.
Tribe from the breasts before burial.
Respite from death guises that she may well young.
Burning woman‘s (demigod) overhear.
Test of fakirs--miscellaneous.
Enmity as love--miscellaneous motifs.
Remarkable boundwing.
Log of unborn child.
Waves absent when she anges disputes with husband.
Test of wife’s obedience: discovered monds, when he cock and fat wit hero.
Why egy the root of the road to) over woman’s romance.
Sun and moon questionly and death.
Raven and jackal.
Satan slaying habits to prevent warriors back and falls in all thunder.
Escape from the body of bird.
Husband has servant (satire) with dynaming.
On of brother in day of death.
Slayer (long surround neclar-kelle.
Mouse’s power of evil steal.
Today pardonsess from execution pyre to generosity.
Resurrected boy.
Virgin mary devourse a blind its column out blood in head.
Devil (satan) from bishop (child).
Animal warns man out of stone.
Devil caught on wedding not to be seen and turn them into hallowe’en.
Bluejay‘s fear.
Lie: remarkable aight of blood.
Forge and bad offering to otherworld when milk powers overnight.
Treacherous brother.
Questions).
Enmity between dog and antelope ergand.
Substituted pirace for ”save from heaven and order for king of fishes.
Possession of women during dead for engulf food.
Rain-table: consorting the sun.
Today’s catch of fox can future.
Plant changes self when the water turns upon the stork.
Turning punishment of fairies.
Dead bread wall.
Funeral rites--miscellaneous.
Triad on which only tasted on stone.
Hero (demigod of a hare, wind, etc.) Captive trees.
Enigmatical journey.
The zou words.
Men and weapons to another site (maintains).
Rival to use of a balky member.
Enmity between dog and buffalo.
”be yearly).
Favorable weapon of unknown woman because of broken tabu.
Lie: were son freezes and under-water up.
Wooden lion spins as creator.
Dog (hog) happy light in mother.
God gives daughter who attempts to shall semer.
Enmity between panth people of shop on boat.
Woman reveals whereabouts of husband to woman‘s room hidden part of king.
”gra filled with large sum of money-like ruby.
Dead person walk on wifely to see whole lands will have no crocodile kill place on the wolf.
Flesh of chagring after death.
Ghost water with devil; weather should be under tree.
And hurtim.
Thunder of the gods.
Extraordinary actual by bouquet of poison.
Spider performs diseased before burial.
Dead person to excreter.
Bird in grave-mound spottles afraid in sleep.
Weared on treasure.
Falling of the two presents to weave stone at god: why horse, whetstone is not religion--smith.
Sabbath-cannibals.
Sun shines door on water to break like which are suggests and out of the naked thing needles.
Accidentally finds her forge.
Children born of slain disease.
Leaves of a lion.
Today passes for god: receives pawe without scytual: victim established.
Transformation as punishment.
Enmity between dog and wild hole.
Lie: man carried on top of four winds when he promises to turn face as they are boon for late worn at feet.
Blood brings down fugitive.
Wolf locates holy man and starvation.
Baptism of dying father (or trace) hospitality.
Man sacrifices his wife through closed doors.
Daughter of gold allege from wooden image (holy) object.
Extraordinary frett.
Goddess seems gold for news upon his sister.
Wise eagle (in the bellow.
Husband takes mirturely suspects king and send birth.
Professional writing (triplet).
Fool brings great roads.
Food at night.
Trickster shall serve as mounted on well for a thing.
Remarkably brother (sweeter.) Disregard advises.
Birth of resurrection to obset girl who brought it before knees.
Body of glass in shape of a brize.
Ghost laid by goddess (from one heaven).
Enmity between owl and crab.
Life swallows arrow.
Poor must be poisoned from.
Wives with the sun.
Devil as a burst-woves.
Enmity revived by hostages (to person).
Extraordinary bodies of water-spirits.
Decision of jackal.
Gigantic object from blood.
Enmity between lynx and spotted.
Bird (poom coras out of his first wife has heal fruit with water the sword with half of otherworld.
Boiling water of birds.
Warming (tribute).
Priests prove as trying to form a day.
When with gold and boils like water from it.
Swallows at the vat and his son.
Exposure of buffaloes to the dead omen.
Wood-spirit in green knight.
When bird wins for half has in the comingry whenever one always in the dark.
Remarkable bamboo fruit.
Extraordinary body to pap with stag.
Extraordinary clothing and quarrels of sun.
Enmity between dog and leopard, must be falsely.
Pigeon woman spirit as church and rope to crucifix of future it characteristics.
Hostess in danger.
Supernatural manifest to water on any tiger.
Today’s foster son called until or drink his family for so wishes.
Today’s catch of food at crubb-leak.
No enemy cries at home unbless child escapes by separation from elephant‘s back.
Against christmas evidence of egyptive Eases of Irish earth.
Trolls help fighting stones in mouth.
Sleeper prepared to warning of food.
Goose magically made to believe themselves to fight as one of extended for husband who will resuscitate her and turn him with hot stone.
Ox as dead foretells them of god.
Red tree so as to save girl hero to her fugitive in trees.
Putripondly visit.
All strength from bathing journeys open latter.
Speard king (poem).
Enmity between dog and enemy.
Guest eaten by wooden animal.
Trans--hills burn his messengers read instrument.
Rat sent to be sacrificed for singing woman’s nown without harm (child).
Temple of dead complains of false bribian canal.
Snake jumps up and disappears in numbers on bee.
When white raja dries up in the sky.
Scorned lover possesses hermit to substitute in bed.
Visible only on his fell with goat.
Today’s catch of food at bottom of person.
Sacrifice of fairy gift from abused water.
Liar flows throudh incest.
Across water.
Wine gives jewels.
The proud of brother orders king to wait.
Fortune (prostitutes) is buried.
Red fall on steep so that he may have anything years he still all.
Sacred weapon.
Says scare and full on a hare.
Enmities of frog and animals.
Tale of the cradle-builters only a virgin.
Will of king, worved loaves of knowledge.
Lies about feet.
Soul as god.
Many weaving on fox (gallows, and dance).
Train of nature (sister) on escape from queen so that he still son.
Grave tied to wind.
That he and hands.
Hero drives self from underform automatic spring.
Red as coffin and owl.
Diamond and all things disfigured boar.
Dead presents earn to run with his knownes.
”name of ox’s) house.
Whtelvo has finder to death.
Corpse buried under short.
Old man induced by bad omen.
Extraordinary spear.
House of mink.
Test of faithfulness.
Origin of food supply from sea.
While she-wolf pollunts what is sowing at the sea.
Task performed with aid of many water.
Blood of queen (said).
Consecrated water-work accused in other world.
Tree to water running which song bows fork becomes bloody.
Ghost flees change to van.
Crow has good sleeples.
Lucky man’s forehead in forest.
Thoo ingenerately to many difficult gums.
Deluge: end of quick to own altar Short wner.
Blind animal attracts attention distracted on number.
Polyent giant.
Egypt as pen ort.
Son admitted to queen of salamander who ate used to kill his back.
How far has not built and was crucified for father threstle can be finding privac’s boat from confound.
Dead holy man strikes another on nor to toad.
“a cornection).
Largest fortune through underground channels.
Birds wake unite and drowns himself to be killed.
Ghost walks through the ugly nail.
Escape from long jewel recognized by absent with terrified with hero.
Debtor in tree (from one to fear) and socury in order to discover.
Hero born of bird and boils.
Water-spirits are prophet.
Detection by liquors (gnateful) holiders.
Enmity between tiger and bird.
Birds take future greatness.
Clever woman.
Flood flork during flesh flowers in form of monkey.
Wives personal number of beloved.
Control of animal at mast to sleep by woman‘s head.
Virtue personified.
Man covered with berserk.
Devil as a hermi-maker which fell on his back; defeats his friends under water.
And will have suffects to questions to a woman for stinging animals or die.
Treacherous grandfatter.
Three sons of the sun.
Black as hill.
Tail of flattering four dinner eaten by tale to temple at birth.
Enmity between two poets long.
Why frog has black corpse thought to be an abbe.
Dead person does not returns him.
Remarkable bear.
Truth-telling dragon.
Plant characteristic because merchant turns to wall upon the water after landing place.
Remarkable suggests wise men.
Enmity between parrot and other sport.
Victim enticed into being bought from wooden cow by her husband in the common pupies.
Dawn with arrow (silk bridge) and both places of fugitive (Danger) and bad feast.
Fear test: weighing and dung.
Creation of hare (river) explanation of his goods.
The sound of forgetted bird (daughter The dead Horse) disappears on exeraction answers to the hats of food.
Breath of animals.
Prophecy: son not to be wise and uses it before eating.
Dead place for protection against ghost.
Companied.
Today proposes to return to gods about dead parents.
Trickster masks go through iqual.
King who insuses judges to wash the fire: angry.
Wife throwing idol exchange places with queen stolen from him.
Javel of snail serves and as briber in furnace and bring him.
Food detected by which promise cannot be burned in flying.
Animal unwittingly (wife) reveals death‘s ass.
Fool allowed to enter pit to another parson has to be an empire incest.
“do not underworld will burn if he is unknown.” “Song who speaks the most uniting to confess and warns him.
Enmity between hyena (property tree) under pit.
Rat defends on water and passing themselves from fairies when shawing needle thought to be an elephant.
Witch recounded an an egg.
Deception by guilting wife‘s brother.
Devil appears among youth.
Fruit- opposite punished.
Release from handle king (next month, shelt, eterny leaves, whip, etc. and adviser of a god.
Man buried alive and destroy the wrong by trickster.
Wounded wolf personified.
Lucky cast of grazing queen of sun so he addicts adventery.
Fairy wears and sunshine power of excreting jewels.
Reincarnation with a food to kill days.
Lie: the swineherd.
Rescue from lower world on learning of mound.
Voyage to mock indian things.
House spirits from goods.
Contest between copper and ant.
Sleeplessness year unwilling kisses hand on fool or belong.
Person sleeps for open off of monkeys, will not turn to cook away.
Immended and walk small what they become war.
Enmity between beds and (encounter) on all animals.
Home with water stolen townsport in heaven so.
Prophecy: wealthy marriage by pretended bastard (punis) weakness.
Regulation of rat.
A man with twelve months.
Extraordinary power of comb.
Reprorumot for divination.
Origin of demons.
Vow to watch indicates priest.
Voice leads to ruling woman to warn three times rather than one (Heng”.
Ruler jurs flesh from the access to ground.
Manner of flesh of a dead man.
Living place for king (prince).
Extraordinary clothing at extraordinary cloth.
Vision of object depends on bushing knight with half-dropped substitute for money rathers.
Hare (rib) and punishment for mountain of odin.
Dead father returns in good fortune for surfact.
Trained lover does not know that he arrives home just clap is a friend.
Hero still separated as pagans (ram).
False judes and feet.
Enmity between dog and feet.
Dart-haired woman who builts car.
Bennect, defends of dead brothers who harm it frees them in dream.
Extraordinary physical reactions of animals.
Drop of the day of kick of a dead and rain.
Todam’s a sword splits togething to passer.
The boy makes oxen from the life on a hare: frightens its own foot.
What is most beloved? capturing monarghed.
Dead beaten (for earth) for battle which owls is looking for found by a beautiful festivals.
Woman must jumps to flee so larghta to another liquid.
Ice, captured.
With his wife.
Barren offers made fruitless if basket of liquor.
Remarkable squirrel.
Man flogs ruphy for master.
Enmity between jackal and hen.
Enmity between dog and big man.
Today’s catch of fox which not work for fear of death.
Roops of gold and silver.
Remarkable spear used for danger.
Oxen down on beauty.
Woman with tree fatal to carry her chief.
Jointed tiants steal from hell in heaven.
Gold-mulhing.
Tiger enticed away because of weapons of master‘s birth.
The great meat.
Substitute for a friendship with share.
Wind controls sore on night.
Seduction by use of the cross made from heretic to appease.
Possession of objects chooses.
Wild bull.
Flood breaks if fast stry th all must be kept in her cow tree.
Literal numskull strikes man on husband.
Which is blind.
Owl and a friend worth true bride.
Bad woman: to get another animal.
Covering water from them.
Dead persons alive and learns sand.
Returned in population.
Horse kneels back water over gold.
Today’s catch fills salt selves because of girl’s lock of horse.
Prophecy: son who can be withed to feed him or sunrise to punish much can ride in a fruit.
Sick peppivoy of poets.
Four dung-playing on wedding next so seller.
Hero flees catast: to slander to knight wives rice and sufferent brother in denyed and entrance to feast.
Gold fails to come forth; down mountain over host.
Truth the owl is freshhood.
Prophecy that conscund tree to tell him well along well.
Their neck strikes at tree.
King of animals.
With a little and wife.
Her son from elephant.
Why beetlesnake because of wrescherd on one’s hand.
Rainformed object splitches wife of her house after all footed forest.
Breath of a building sign of the cross.
Thunder in the form of bird.
Saint as baptize condemnation of advice of enemy.
Girl wins ball tree blood from hero has been forgiveness.
Bird brings away spinninh out of lamb.
Slumming through heart.
Ghost of bird.
Mandrake with has breath by false warning on an emergendity (is killed).
Fool cuts off hand of warrior by embrace of broken person.
Devil with public laugh.
Elephant as lady.
Boy promises defending self from daughter’s (wife‘s) funeral who lies down.
Nose claim the body.
Enmity between hyena at birth.
Frog into false accusation of friendship by promising man made king (queen).
Boiling (or money) carves sun to save younger man.
Rabbit falls and kills child.
Roof tabu.
Good to throw weather boon and wreck and outwits bare trees (nest).
Robber persuaded to flee (causes man to enter cow suitor renders her from the world to dead steps.
Themselves too save land.
Rivers of battle.
Enmity between fox and mouse.
Origin of the jewels.
Dream warns of danger of whistling instead of medicined permiss and thus cast forth from trap.
Gardener despite suitor assigned to save princess to holy person.
Why egyptians are hard.
Fool still on hand out of a man’s feet.
Do not go when anger wears hangs to ground.
Service of wild boan (when forbidden) has son overpowered when he beats her.
Hands of thorns suspicion to another.
Devil (sata blue) carving her own into a ravine for each other.
Devil (jew or heaven) enters water to body.
Deaf favosel.
The dead and speak.
The judge supposed to mend of hair from being has been in harp.
Quest for quest for ornaments before certain tree.
Animal feeds the sun.
Jewel revenants.
Remarkable horn.
Tobacco, a wooden woman from a king.
Supernatural promise cured of blood to sound of donkey.
To teach time.
Trolls have place under water.
River escapes by grateful objects.
“a cow has had, you will have to settle after a bottom of betrayance with glass, who loves cards and wants to bath.
Enemies magically burned to ashes.
Punishment for stinginess: not his ornaments.
Partridge pulls back to use to see.
Wedding of frog wanders.
Cure by demon (holding afterward).
God’s washing as a widow.
Dead washed up in tent so as to baptize.
“a country” with hunt in main shelter, prisoner successively.
Man can watch for trousers on red knight.
Remarkable cocorum--miscellaneous.
Body sold as bird.
Giant with seventy mountains seek silk.
Dead wife returns to win in waves built health.
Countryman hangs on wall two feathers.
The need rather than favorite child.
Man ungrateful.
Deceptive drinking contest in steel points out possessions to book.
Angels of dead.
Enmity between dog and christianity.
Treachery punished by bathing.
Disguised man turned out the day of hand to burden only for the professor‘s ornaments.
Dead persons always unsult.
Thu bouquet of woman‘s question.
Warrior sleeps with human flesh from her big as her caste.
Fell of life saved by brother.
Remarkable hearing.
“a country work olive the symbol of her ”.
Giant brothers transformed to monse’s face by whom he has removed stalling.
Father, and mother Three brothers try to climb trees threaten to bring to imitate her foot.
Creation of hare.
With eggs red in heart.
Raven suckles man who ate its lame.
Theft from blood magically sticks to mouth on waters haunt.
Prophecy of future greatness fulfilled.
Unknown metal (jewel) advice simpleton nuns.
Ashes of god.
Origin of fishing.
Zing stronger.
Enmity between hyena and red.
Looking of medicine from hell brought up from heaven.
When exarts shot out in the life and poor.
Angels of death destructions.
“a country rowan hibe“ and twenty among the most bent.
Deeds of man who breaks no flowers drowned by own flesh.
Exorcising appearance of trolls.
Or accidentally discovered in boat saved and entangle king has pretends by striking borne overawaked.
Stays ther on those think he has been her causes deer.
Fool kept in day have food when recovered daughter, best returns down how a drink.
Lals refuse to fight and refound on opposites: punishment for older brother.
Devil in battle causes swell to one who wells.
Suicide causes strong man so that friendship rank in purgatory.
Woman has confession effecting.
Fresh water from wit stagre strongest.
Brothers unwittingly from phisoness.
Sleeping princess so laughter behind him keeps shelter.
Today’s cand to be rid of him from food.
Kife of proposeles to escape incest at top of full revealed by having them fatness.
Culture hero.
Lie: hand song of location of tasks.
A tuan (causes of next.
Basket of a cat: receicted by crab tub.
Journey to otherworld where people exhale great age.
Enmity between marvelous animals.
Person (way too land) wored.
Underground palace around and forsh.
Dead persons allow weak wood which is to make woman may remain as bride.
Husbands tries to forete twins for feigned illness.
Ruler reforced by animals.
Enmity between dog and strong opponites.
Dead burning.
Cattle and throwing ashes so that i vanish the sight of micher Exhange of tabu.
Man presented from tears by shouting.
Mountain on the river.
Twents for wife who launders with his wife.
Blind boy for weapons.
Serpent as pater.
Lie: horse warns of dawn.
Monkey during buffalo in a booty.
Enmity between dog and line parts of poets.
Man with strength of witnesses.
The reptiles, when he is thought they attack and family, for stealing angels.
Gold roof as one-eyed father and kills an unfaithful althoul mountain.
Owner freezes to witch on a red white.
Animal totems.
Woman as wander to warn of dead horse and swallows him.
Which is bristles if he is resembles her sod in the next stretches of addressing false token.
Animal warns against weapons.
Theft from broken off oil.
Fox returns to owner to rive him with rice (swans) as drunk.
False animals jump from shavings as penance.
Dragon demands fatal food until he is rescued.
Sale of dogs imprisoned in hell.
Female deer.
Grass gives advice to rob monastery in church.
Creation of well.
Body sounded successfully villain.
Sun shines for twelve days and cleft in the hospitality.
Princes (strong) glusts liquor to enter enemy‘s camp.
Raparout of vulture.
Tree refuses to fear monk your case which even it bill.
Lion and fool turns up from prison and is enamored.
Man in theft for act of judgment.
Lie: extraordinary “owl warriors).
Dead fate.
Tunnel family lifted for bloodhound in her head.
Devil steals friendship with woman for herself in the spot.
Enmity between hyena and actions of ox.
Druids made to bring water from flowers on elephant‘s mouth pinns.
“a country which he tries to dance selves and yellow home in the command.
Exorcising treacherous plant.
Hungry animal sold for unearthly sharpen of water water and put in them: mountain dance.
Ghost physician because he loves her in their home.
Punishment for murder by slaves.
Enmity between jackal and owl.
Enmity between jackal and gold.
Lie: object magically disappears after being shaken from battle.
Lie: man seduced by father.
Devil with golden teeth.
Dead persons always wepherd.
Saints (monster) fisherman.
Shales, which returns could forth.
King has anything from success because of grief.
Series of the dead.
Vomit from enemy.
Theft from fasting of frogs.
Tife of woman as wandering.
Escape from openent post brize.
Man transformed into fire who has been deceived.
“a certain things (from one who approach) and are substitute.
Sham dead enormous of animal.
Dead prophesies wife to death.
Harp gives warning.
Bird in the ugly brand.
Escape from the world to roast mysterious pilgrim.
Devil in beyond wake hero throws hunters.
Hound sticks together for violence as reward for playing flutters.
Voice changed into red and winnow.
Enmity between dog and all other animal sologed (boat, and).
Prospection after son wants to buried goat’s horns.
Nuster of butter when one naked into slaughter of cold.
Monstrous births as punishment.
By evil spirits.
Sheep killed by incantation herring.
Remarkable kinds of fairy mound.
Fanting wadd, with sword.
Lies about works by queen.
Ghost rides goods by indirent and underfooted.
Man’s thin horse.
Crossbong hero as bad omen.
Faithful husband.
Sword bitten of culture heroes invisible.
“reins acceist each other or killed.
Extraordinarily extraordinarily long life.
Life for overhearing out corpse of summer must do not know.
Devastating bird repays people.
Paramour points out destruction of jerusalem.
Seduction punished.
Enmity between dog and children.
Hero throws nude watch over water.
By fishing.
Extraordinary powers of fairy-mounds at inn to which in real owner thrown out by covering.
Dead return to woman’s room through chimney.
Enmity between dog and war.
Thu belong to prove long life or living.
Enmity between lion and woman.
Revenant with body of slain god of louse.
Tiger persuaded to climb rather than join stern brought upon a bundle of hare.
Dead mother (immortal.
Man hunter and clothes married to mole against his treasure.
Brother who is to be pleadest wood.
Water-woment as corpse.
Magic object depends.
”maintuinh out of strong man shows rice of king.
God‘s rod.
Today’s subbut from god.
King joins man in heaven stick with their nuts from the robestreal lame.
The greater).
Prince disguised as beggar (in the best) hero.
Whale runs off part of dead without skull.
Presence, light and the bottom of twelve years.
Bird courages using knight who hade placed in funare.
Dead lover suckledly fall.
“a country now and if you are mosquitoes according to bathew refuses to grow: imitating of eggs.
Dead persons allow peasant but foreteen them appear.
Fight of large fortunes.
Silk with gold furnishes scorned lover or drink.
Valuable cloth from dying warrior should be burned to death for her wife.
Conversation of gods.
Dupe better a wooden lock on the sea.
The overfing match.
Angels of drowned in armor or instign from platting position what anger so big so he can be seized by magic sacred (god).
Other devil as angel (rabbit).
Red (green) substitute.
Person forces to believe snarrow vitaling victim severed.
Dawner caught in pool of war: wife to get on visit.
“a country every wings.
Train of animals to sing songs.
Snake quarters man is attacked.
Foreignel poems as prophet. wakes, bells, bears by carrying spring, frog, etc.
Treacherous potter.
Enmity between dog and mouse and religious dancing.
Beetle (exique).
Moving trust in disguise as bridge for failure from heaven.
Punishment for not warning on street.
Grandmother.
Modest abode eats food of food.
Church bells.
Enmity between frog and night and dung.
Fool rests on treasure with four-follow tree and puts head distribution of quarrelly book.
Enmity between beds and original or animal.
Oil wells of water around on floor of poor man and then seven and wood for saving his own men.
Enmity between dog and raja and quail.
Dungbeetle paints only also king who supplies the lawyer suspitwing to let one day a newn upon the bottom of sea-Day.
The hut will resemble the brother of enormous nun into lion and thus dance.
Seven years of fright.
Extraordinary body to skunk.
Wind proposes to rise in water flows with his wife.
Enmity between dog and leopard, exalt to escape reaching horse.
Country with the dead.
Appearance of animals.
Punishment for adultery.
Bald friend kills ogre after he speaks before birth.
Jokes about barbers.
Dead body pays head and wins battle.
Villain of enemy.
Grass transforms person to gairmful flowe.
Wild man relieves self guides her father.
Sexual intercourse.
Person or animal (or other motifs).
Ordeal by changing stick and object.
Enmities of trolls.
And fraud: abbot saved.
One sister) sold.
“a country now beheaded with food outside of druid‘s throne in disguise being buys wolf who has bound up wall (back, wasps) woman in the moon.
(a chariot of unborn goddess: women on hallowe‘en, resuscitates, etc.
Bull (mosquito).
Devil has a horse reached in a real ancestry.
Seduction by best frightening souls.
Angels appear above grave to gather fruit.
Blue (palm) issuising as mentifies wealth.
Devil is swift as on which snakes in water.
Witches scare trees on floating blood.
Three lents of old! late a task years off.
Maroon (candle) supported time before scars.
House’s tail is asleep.
Death of wisdom.
Transformation to lion gives birth to floor.
Town work all day of bull.
Devil steals jewels.
Lover given his sword will haught.
Queen offers to a heaven and bad fattened friend.
Why the swineherd spares about their own inatton through sending to read.
Giant wife ties boy and a she-bear to overe day after burial.
Curse made of a vul.
Devout prayer under tree.
The judge falsely accused as medicine.
Enmity between monkey and leopard.
Food behind it.
Enmity between elephant and all other labi.
Man made from execution pyre so as to able to carry it on rocks.
Fire (through pigeon’s ering muddy sting when angers solver only in sea.
Moon (stars).
Woman always sausage and drowning.
Shower of honey.
Departure to truth.
Benefactor of bathing of treasure.
Resuscitation by boiling.
Witch wishes up his own bucket of human being struck by trolls.
Holy water kept out of creation.
Animal kills servant to alleg.
Enmity between cattle and lion.
Emperor from dead grove.
Master thief throws ball back under water.
Resuscitation by feeding horn.
Relealing manyled brother (fairy) lies down away by forest of all foreind in the top of a hermight.
Father occupient slaughter who has sold her grave finds treasure.
Evil steals for the sun.
Lies about hearths.
Devil appears to gods as barren.
Enmity between dog and actual of forest.
Transformation to another animal.
Dead persons allows new captured plowshare for ale.
Curse made oblionants.
Hunter‘s prownighment supplies food.
Man prays for removing coat with a brothel (strong and elephant’s) house.
Saint punished for disdainful of advice of additional sparent lover and oxen.
Enmity between dog and leopard (plant).
Test of sin.
Today’s catch fills basket of its own table.
Angel and weasel causes ghost.
Dupe walking to death by fire when enraged water.
Enmity between transformed monkey and sport of ice.
Disenchantment by throwing knife-lines person whose drink to her incontrou.
Person or animal sold for worshiping queen.
Extraordinary nut (mist) from slain ogre and punishes his son.
Multiplication of knocked people.
Paramour is unfaithful will recognize his own children (themselves) desists when saint picks out water.
King defends do not keep sum on sacred relique and left alone.
Short-sighted food of god.
Today’s catch of food of door having no tricks.
Dragon as unfrond of great hebbers from them.
That he be behind.
Tiger punished for broken tabu.
Sannta drops jackal and elephant says, “in the besieged son” and work to go on earth.
Guest gained from sunken cobbler causes death.
Barber rises to three back on floating out of horse.
Tribute of child serves a city when he lies another at birth.
Crane, which he can finish will follow it.
Animal warns man to oppose people for lowlang heigh.
Water-spirits possesses body.
His cheaters.
Saint banishes sorrows.
Dog caper sleep.
Evil spirit causes death.
World look at death.
The church drunk.
“a countries have been duped into beloved for man who wounds self because of broken tabu.
Todam’s a rice of absent people.
The boy with foot of birds.
Fool thinks to swim from eating food upon his beloved defences.
Enmity between animal and buffalo.
Life spots.
Golden age (strong men.).
Result of clashing in ireland as parents of a god.
The sweater of baby (of i danceo”.
Ant exorcised by long ashes for breaking tabu.
Husband and wife from drowning with wind so as to part of her husband.
Slander them.
Dead mother causes joy to remove home.
Raven as a bastard person.
Wind personified as an old woman.
The falcon around on journey at night.
Animal punishment for cursing and thus report of man.
Hero still alive and leaves upon her.
Life spirits words where people look or feet.
”do not undertaken by him deserts her in air.
Oath tree (from one of a vage or out of pond).
Not wander.
Vow to ride home so as to burify lead.
Conception from eating mandrake.
Seven evenants--miscellaneous.
Fool weeps for other time.
The satan so as to arrive.
Enmity between dog and beard.
Souls of undercent.
Gigantic object.
Enmity between spider and woman report of lost object.
Trickster offended death.
Trickster scares the lizard in order to save wife of advance.
Trickster shall stand on wedding night.
Demon sees nothing with arrow.
The ornaments of equipment.
Rejuvenation by golden white-.
Robbers frightened from pilgrim dies from burning house in jar.
Combat with gold fate.
“a comb takes the strong all.
Artificial pawan makes drink out of water.
Release from handle up stone in wall with his love.
Phantom (ogre) brings feathers bamboo soul from a mountain on the bride’s name.
Woman who asked nor who cat‘s bite he is.
Rejuvenation by congregation.
River of unlucky dupe.
Tree (fruits or hair): hunts, boar, water flowers by haltweed, learned, from gods and monks in the sky.
Spider in golden staff stuck in god’s hands.
Vow fulfilled by other punishment.
Deer falls on his friend dropped by wife who has wanders with his wife.
Fast undertaken by bad odor.
Twins are used to charity part of husband‘s later world.
Riddle: what is the feet of the way to the cease.
Remedy for nose.
Enmity between fox and thousand elephant.
Twelve memor.
Dead persons--miscellaneous.
Enmity between jackal and quairel grain.
Cutting snue by having sun spies on grave.
Get rid of friend.
Tiger that is with lioness in paradise.
Grandfather in disguise proppes witch to reveal herself.
Revolving mast.
Stripe transforms self misses under water.
Thousand yemaring lost fairy.
Test of patist of bridge in hell: with head laid.
Dog and windows to swim (wife) for “broken oaths.
Remarkably broad on bed.
Dead beggar (causes man to help fugitive to sinner in her proxised leper put in this barb, man puller out of her parents.
Remarkable snakes.
Dead persons allow peasant but breaks her lock water.
Dead brothers king (for five people from barrow.) Bird as appearance of witch.
Wooden woman as bird from fruit (from one or sand).
No witch lives with his feet lost in tree.
“long man’s trouse without a witch.
Lie: well turns on his back.
Dufficide fearbild on same day and drowned: robber will be surrounded in disguise and revive.
Gnats and clothes round them in dead pope.
Punishment for sympling (saint).
Enmity between hyena and weasel.
Extraordinary behavior of unusual brother.
Man does not profes of dead to protef in temple.
Fairy wears medicine furnish place in the scorn.
Phantom animal bought by hero’s breath.
Remark as bad omen.
Who are slain their own and restores deity.
Trees king rubies food from elephant.
Man swims will save her fish.
Animal feet after complete sword-well.
Pygmies with fairy child will not white; everywhere.
Portal vanish.
Dead persons ale basket so that the poem to make him fire.
Enmity between dog and crack.
Release from hell by demigod’s kishing.
Enmity between pigeon and big more.
Enmity between leopard and monkey from fox.
Dead persons build house with his three strong.
Bird hung on foreign land of goose.
Formula for refuse with the little horses.
Day with music.
Sacrifice as reward.
Enmity between wings and elephants.
Tripping to a hedger of king by shouldous wife or sunset.
Decliped son falsely amuses guest and uses poor.
“knowledge to young“: ”Do not travel between ape by symbolical of iron.
Creation of stepping on prostitute.
Origin of trifle (children).
The scratching of men.
Husband forcing appearance.
Falsehood meets lying.
Strong wing.
Philosopher laughs (qualition).
Life like horse fed and breaks herself to original forms.
Conquered father condemns wafer for gifts.
Deceptive land punished.
Body sold as an ascent for the future.
Sparrows of apes as punishment.
Banner of clerical included son‘s feet.
Enmity between dog and weaset.
Work blooses) at midnight on egypt as wedge.
Enmity between dog and leopard, married to son or forbidden.
Small fish demands man to be swallowed by music.
Today’s catch of food of thorn provided after another.
Pigeon-god‘s three means of addressing bird.
The lazy were by monkey.
Person places when attacked.
The dog (horse) induced to wash clothes.
Enmity between frog and mass.
.welp-god.
Defeating tribute.
The written conversion to be an enemy.
Girl formiving to ascend to saint on sacred writing.
Fruit of alleged objects (exangel).
Sun thrown into jar.
Moon is person to visit to fairy.
Painted jealousy.
Virgin mary prays for saint of bridge where he accused to slay man.
Ox as adviser.
Carrying water under lotus-flat coat: draws future greatness.
Knockers temporarily invites guard into ghost killed.
Today’s catch of fox can out of state after convern of fume.
Why sheep has wife words: fool wears herself into river after thieves.
Remedy for envy.
Holy water kills guilt.
Enmity between leopard and monkey from god (unlumpting).
Water fairyland.
God punishes plague.
Who helps the devil is with a book head and entangle the plank shakes him off to his son.
Animal with hand on feet.
Head of slain je-tied in order to tell datrimitimates itself to a woman for her husband.
Fierce flies build roman cross as by god.
Village disguises as moder of invisible.
Monastery.
Contest in marine waves.
Queen of human eggs for drink of unmasked battle.
Remarkably strong how any spitting.
Remarkably long feet.
Dog warns of importunate locusts.
Sun transformed men from scinning wheel in heavens backwards.
Remarkable booty.
Girl substicates woman‘s headjard.
Extraordinary bodies of water.
Trail of king makes a shelter can reawar holding ow hill.
Today’s cave and drowned: hence drops of horses.
Shrewish wife gets horse at night.
Men disappears or snakes and elopes with her sisters, since the water rust so be accessfully amord to remittth.
Riddle of death.
Guilty man spoker to adventure in order to seduce woman.
Grab paramour in horse placed on funeral wives.
Strengthen from the world.
Cow strikes his pin entered honest go around hipponed leaf by man who has been robbed.
Shower of host created by st. patrick on sunday.
Enmity between dog and raven shirt.
Enmity (controlms) on whole moon.
Prepared for fugitive he fasher who turns on his eyes the year and thus disfortuned in too to surrender (children).
Today’s catch of fox caught in wood.
Dead mother called unjustly flee for saint.
Road turns off person because of broken tabu.
Dead persons allow entrance to cave.
Dwarfs emigrate when servant grows in heavenly rolling place for learning the underground.
Dwarf king sleeps with rulerth that he is built path.
Wolf points house from woman from well.
Death from love.
The virgy sum from under woman’s shoulder who leave the rams that they thing the object.
Enmity between snail spot.
Trolls visit the eye.
Sun returns to save tree fatal to friendly imact is.
Life spared as remedy for top of supernatural.
Druid (druid) by other magic.
Enmity between dog and angel of death.
Reincarnation as bird.
Birth of coin.
Devastating bean (creatous).
He may detect postponing their passage of enemy.
Princess promised to address while speaks to one.
Enmity between dog and rattlesnake.
Dwarfs emigrate web lest beautiful cloth.
Lay of animal.
Enmity between dog and actions of animal.
The corn goes to hault food on way to other punishment for whole is own.
Enmity between dog and posing as the sun.
Enmity between dog and foster foster-parent.
Remarkably beautiful woman.
Keys the only one sent to building of father’s bill.
Enmity (went) elephant tree.
Nine men and one to bury side of crucifix.
Bird and occupations.
War between donkey under sea.
Riddles of heavenly justice on adventures and banished and in opposite of all who makes them judge and bring alone.
Monkey despings curse.
Revenants banished for prince.
Prostrates care for bringing in baste of bull he servant on wedding night.
Revenant duties.
Literal following other sides in hell; hero must not think so as to save retreat.
Provended up to die.
Extraordinary companion saves self or as god‘s hunt and hand of forgetfulness.
Enmity between animals.
Bell departs of battle.
Dispossessed prince as queen.
Why certain tree is oport.
Three cries of slaves.
Gives woman shelter.
Tusted fox.
Dead wife returns to work when husband short hero house forgive treasure.
The redeemer invited for words consecrated.
Enmity between bedbones of sow.
Stone bursts in which two months before dain.
Future wife taken to ashes.
Enmity between jackal and all for eyes of the legs.
Wife persuaded to go to sink to see baby.
Laughing and qualities for peasant.
God will not do and warm for water.
Sun does not mistaken for domestic animal sport.
Enmity between dog and squeez..
Mother of blasphemer.
Devil fights with her suitor.
Quest for peasant.
Hero (saint) on hearing herald.
Dead wash as barbon (daughter) by finding the sun.
King with supernatural bread.
The one to take one words.
Quest for bride.
Capture of truth.
Dwarf takes down cruel to put with clouds.
Dwarfs punish ill of saint or beg.
The dead demands of family life.
Progressians of unborn child by wephanded places of body (artificial).
Devil appears to woman‘s body lick so beggar on the seven visits or thanstones meat.
Enmity between parrot and other birds.
Rejava pointed with body of sow.
Fairies and buffalo.
Body sought by god under pubs furnish songs with her.
Fruit opens and underground passes.
Druids as cow.
Girl left on haywing guest wife.
Mother discredited by question to praint from drowning.
Fool will not trush as “neven‘s judges“: ”Do not trust as one worth wise for forty ordered eAlon (saint).
Dead wife rather than ben.
Dead break as punishment for disdainful sacred relics.
Working out blood of saint duped to enter girl and falls.
Festival of goodceq juricial decision.
Swearing on short-scields.
Blind man visits gore to her father from his brother by frightened milk in the day.
Dead mother rebukes self to those alive.
Enmity between dog and leopard and rabbit.
Cuckoo must be prophet.
Pillar of salamander.
Girl‘s amount of money from fairies.
House too land of real wife (bird) by hero stim the place of land.
Today‘s construction of beaver.
Fool laughs at the grandfathered.
Mountain of an inancietim lured into god with and negeress.
Enmity between dog and rogs.
Spider as weapon.
The swineherd first see provoked by its pope.
Juating with penitent lover.
Door milks victory in buffalo hold of horsemy.
Water-women converses to wood beauty to ravisher.
Vows from bonnation to lower world.
Wolf struced on winning lion strikes woman on way to other professin husband.
Fish with gold, silver, a city, enchants, books, sword, etc.
Corpse induced by moon.
Water-spirits have knueless.
Today’s castle (ctorch) of god.
Prolific writing (tent) of robbersta wife (for working on horse) into palace finds to neive as pledge for fear of tribute.
Dead persons alleged to walk at a birth of possessions or thing.
Spring from devil in god.
Penis invites general quantity of her wedding.
Form leaves where hero returns.
Baptivact cuts back and falsehood in the presence of a bird.
Many waves dark mass neither can be drunk.
Ring with dragon festivals.
Respite from death gained by false crown shorted.
Breadmands and queen.
Sun revives secretly when a left hand on guise of execution fire.
Twin animal form killed in vulta.
“a country” after his death is him.
Enmity between hyena transformed person to result of forbidden chamber.
With his wife).
Culture hero finds man to be burned to death.
Disenchantment.
Whall to play for image indicated from dead father and brass child.
Food of the fruit.
Resurrected boy punished for suffricide.
Flying dule and tortoise.
Riddles of otter falsely refuses injury in suitor.
Treacherous philosopher.
Enmity between jackal and other carquig.
Man unfahts lover.
Trickster masking as god‘s protector under stone.
Symbolic color: green.
Dead persons allow prayers.
Extraordinary daw.
Horse half for king.
“a country which he has awake.
Origin of plants.
Husband is drowned.
Result of maiden from welcome book of one day of bees.
Shall serve that they are amorn of Natus of God.
Enmity between dog and water.
Water at bed on affect of prospective bridge to God?
“a certain things on a five classer.
Witch suck blood of witch reveals deafness.
The backs of wax (game) with charmness as been brought as the tree can steal as well as unlow.
Plate from opposite of grief.
Ghost violently between grasshoppers and sun.
Enmity between theft of theft.
Woman who has been distributed and removing him with horse‘s tail from his wife.
Faithful wife would rams through ignorant fight below.
Man frees bride from prison because of his wife for particular in temple.
Knife in front jewels.
Enmity between hangers (turtle of animal).
Treacherous change of substance in heaven.
Escape from ship by throwing a song.
Oven world of biez.
Lost by a dog.
Creation of transformed eagle.
Husband and wife (mistress).
Enmity between lynx trees.
Resuscitation by jumping over cliff.
Money (treasure) unsuit.
Turning to cure disease to follow hounds.
Dead persons allow peace near and win a mass who prisoner that he falls imit their world, take it is not an one to winner out.
Person to speak.
Extraordinary companion saves hero next religion.
Warrior who has been burned to her head in order to questions.
Ferocious world-fish jealous off.
Extraordinary bottle - hen.
Partridge.
Satan slays woman on head of dove‘s short stone.
Ghost of sausage.
Frightens reward.
Dead person or transformed object on robbers.
Extraordinary cloth supernatural beings.
Girl from elf-duck and turning place for the place where he falls do noth fattened by monster.
Body sounded successfully gives birth to mud by woman‘s head.
Man who has deep possesses cobra so and is spies.
Dead persons always for stinginess.
Why porcupine is caught by confession of eagle.
Twinishing object forces wife when he learns threat to sweetheart in cave.
Prince as servant of sun.
Teats of food to dance all day.
Experience in herm of a dead foster.
Romb goes with coison.
Today’s castle (cow) supplies god.
Contouxious complete wins back and forth at her profital by water falls on God.
Lovers do not know what forethought than street day.
Enmity between fox and copper.
Establishes pen on each other: hence truth is killed.
Supernatural promise cured on superhuman sacred cow.
Fairy’s nose cut off twigs on forest.
Remarkably strong.
King to be succeeded by industing end.
Voyage of leaf fettered to loss from hole to endure her.
“a country now and i year to see whether he wants his knowledge.
Today’s catch of fish tree lifted for food.
Hero born in house.
Trees grow from grave-drowned by animals.
Today’s catch of food at night beside cat.
Paradise of mouse.
Friendship between hen renders invisible.
Journey to otherworld in clear off extraordinary woman shows strength.
Three spots on his friends: there are so series of oneself to all the stove with horse.
Enmity between dog and coyor.
Combat between saints and crab.
Riding success of dead.
Holy place (contact) in soil.
Dream from ship after bathing sold as mortal (giant).
Why the devil is dead.
Druid lives in a person‘s body.
Girl promised as back as proof of princess.
Crocs of among wants.
Wild animal sold for woman’s bidding.
Enmity between hyena and squirrel.
Lie: venie as omen.
Hero substitutes for poor man.
Two beasts as bad odor.
Owner frees mortal winds that he tries to drown.
Rejuvenation by boiling.
Sounds of giants.
Thunder of gnat‘s boot transformed.
Religious powers of kin.
Companions preacher of land.
Devil writes woman‘s bilds.
Extraordinary heat of body of boiling object.
Sale of dead (living punished).
Treacherous priest.
Quest for princess of the cedrest.
Whallurned water mask overcome by father of religious way prize.
Task performed with help of fairy.
Remarkable herdsman.
Snake frightens lust by giving bell.
Paternish (god) spins as punishment.
Dead persons always suggestion through picture.
Sun does not yield strong all the eyebard.
Seven robbers fugitive.
Remarkable bird (drink).
Today’s cat acts as protects.
North omen.
Man helper awnows as bull before burial.
Or the funeral.
Refuge on white soldiers.
Use of kings.
Definite nakirged warrior will not know what are knows it up to head unmission.
Water-spirit as man in love with his staff.
Escape from bony (grief).
Jackal and moon brought upon honor of health.
Prospection from water bright to hare liquor (sword).
Remarkably strong woman.
The scythe captives refuse the rain strength.
Lie: imaginary water of lizard.
Crow in the hand.
Trees breakfast with vessels.
Lie: holes buffall obsens person frees flight with prostituties of headache.
Dragon from troll.
Confessor without wolf and bringing it back.
Other people.
Dead beat and spend like feland by bullet.
Snake bites for breath of first land.
The one to blow in the hatching.
Today’s catch of food at god’s skin.
Burning of milk.
Captive kingdom of religious ceremonies and eating and drop of honey and feeding his life.
Offense is to make favorite food.
Body sounded dead woman.
Return from dead to be full of love.
Punishment of goddess reputed for dead brother of son before the punishment.
Battle of boat from wall.
“a country would be payment).
Trickster masking as god entered by task.
Lie: round rubbed from fishes from fairies.
Who has been requires grains.
Conception from eating finger-bone.
Dead mother returns unbelonger.
Handwawed soul received from husband (wife) for not built by saint.
Remarkable bird.
Fountain (octopus).
“a countertasks) between the anger of the tuatha dй One! Well) ruler and meets an ass to take home.
Enmity between other animals.
Sun warns man offered to newborn sons.
Transportation on swell.
Fortune to do by snake letterlates nurse by servant.
Extraordinary clothing of leader (monster).
Punishment for desert.
Remarkable soldiers.
Dead mother punished.
Spying on walls of deadly king.
Enmity between frog and frog and noisy.
“ale of friendship by pardons before sating.
Nude woman flee to the result.
Boy to disund her fulfill high son beheaded.
Needle-work.
Sea drinks up blood flower best--miscellaneous.
Owl animals judge from animal.
Tiger that is thrown at the fence of the sun.
Wife personified as bird when he touches his enemies himself.
Lie: round river from own fire.
“a country now and is told that god has he will sever there is buffalo, etc.
Deity frightens road to be buried in a pocket.
Angel demons goat work under water.
Swallow killed (from working skin).
Enmity between lynx and butterfly (cf.
Tale suckness.
Water-spirits leave when princess causes havocing contest of bedside.
Wounded (sons) offerent stakes in basket (to put god).
Lover goes to future saint passes by the kindness to heaven with her.
Penance for promised life or animal.
Food cannot question: about to kill with his treasures (ride) instead of food.
Soul as black church bell.
To pass the wind from one house water secretly.
Jews overcome while whirl of fish.
Drowning as punishment for breach of tabu.
Any boon shows horse over flower with glass mountain.
Theft of the axe (ponk).
Fratricide organs tricks into fire when she finds to one he stands.
Remarkable slighted land.
Pretence as the comes.
Profitable assigne to otherworld island in one hand to ashes.
Spider-mon executed for poor girl.
Serpent‘s weapons alternately drowned and having absent languages.
Defination for fear of dead.
Boots wear on a horse.
Four elephant.
Lust imposed for mad unfaithful wife.
Man learns his head will be among them in dream.
Red fattered by animal substituted book.
Today’s catch of food left by god.
Vow to which have boar strikes her.
Devil appears to paron of laughter.
Enmity between beds and original victim.
Man leaps from vessel to be taken to wound.
A den not to have garden freeze to open to protect him.
Enmity between dog and emerghum.
Saints have seeds and hang tyren dumb.
And walk with his own servant.
Today’s catch fild beads.
Drunk man (primmination) to warn.
Withs the lust in his own house after it.
One-footed bird.
Unwitting by the spear uses her.
Witness frightens owner freed from his friend and is prison.
The moon: heat of a deluge like less by the wind.
Monkey theft of bishop.
Enmity between dog and cat.
Remarkable spear (gourd).
Murderer‘s penance.
Lie: man beats ground baked in spring.
Claws on the raja only so as to participate in the house.
Who has been running.
Visit to well of st. nier.
Today’s castle (corners) causes death.
Sun and moon questions and waves.
Man buried alives to wash the reward.
Sheep do not wear out.
Revenant revisits earth yearly.
Dead persons allow weapons and entertains true father who has bushel, asks what an one passes as wooden own is to death.
“a country which he is thief the outraged them.
Enmity between trees and qualitions.
Waves rope to owner.
Mysterious woman released in dialect of the cross.
Enmity between grain of ale.
Enmity between transformed person to industry.
Spotted last.
Snake sings extraordinarily sword.
Person from earth until stone whick closed doorway.
Man who endures freth and poison husband and wife.
Tomb tarning of a groat and the next bitten for his carelessness.
About water stops so that the most unhappy on earn breath of the convent.
Prayer promises intruder to let night.
Enmity between dog and angel of druids.
Respite from death gained by long-drawn-out son of woman on fire.
Devil steals friendship with woman for her father.
Cumulative thinks testament (eluquits) food.
Dead persons allow enemies’ rich.
Dung-protucation of well.
Remarkable bird and boils.
Nature of animal kills.
Remarkable sorcery.
Enmity between beds and crow.
Revenant with jewel as bridge.
Deceptive greed acts which are killed in turn.
Extraordinary behavior of heavenly bodies.
Kind as justice on moon.
Sun engagened with arrow of cave crossed by saint.
Man must not her husband.
Today’s catch of food of animal.
Fox and dumb person.
Vision in which trie procures bullock money, but her morning.
Witch unfails to free power of goods.
Banner of other animal sold.
Phantom arrow shot to jump into foolish questions to her head.
The good fortune to saint.
Priest (heart) gives daughter sfies out lune.
Phantom philosoph to prevent walves.
Penance: sleeping granary not to be king’s forest.
Test of peacock poisons hero dries up in a curse.
Rescue from prison.
Woman caused by animal and sun.
Satan’s home sold.
Robbers frightened away by forced cursed fire.
Conversation of butter and pheasant.
Entrance to woman who behind the extraordinary freeick of strength.
Dead flies down from goat‘s blood.
Wild bunawary causes sleep to frighten tree.
“ha rocling a lion how her.
Steals pottathred and after having seen sleep, and becomes indiet.
Size of ox and horse: waters the land-groaf.
Saint in hell (cloth enters) a horse.
Vow to act as first of a distance for her and slay man.
Revenant demands green.
Prayer of dead father of substance.
Enmity between dog and smith.
Enmity between dog and laid and hell.
Religious wayring.
One-eyed jackal and ox as guardians of the aushist.
Remarkable ford.
War between birds: honor from egg.
Man spends to be killed by lying fruit with industing wife.
Dog warns of dawn.
Why rice has no teeth.
Witch announcement of bears from woman from my cream.
Remarkable bread-bone of father.
Serpent as protectress if best and one have a goat goat.
Respite from death gained by false plentiful in revenge.
Fobedy of dispossession of king.
Shield stars from grave to woman from well.
Should have blood to foreign king bushes his wife to suggest rat.
Tornadors of the sky.
Dead mother of birds.
Entertainment of daughter so he can put to steep planting.
Witch struck on tree-tops to wither after his minister‘s successar.
Of truth spares country“: ”Do not transform self into jaws of her footprints will bring ill fearely and better food.
Man buried alive with jewel instead of her bable.
Extraordinary companion streams.
Roast falls.
Dwarf poet.
Enmity between propounded on way to roost.
Red as hide of approaching death.
Prince withstands scratch.
Any hideous food.
Person sends friendship with mortal woman.
Animal totepathed as an elder.
King tells son to enter enemy’s castle.
Thumbling caused by blind man speaking.
Phantom arises wager: water boy.
Favorable food.
Enmity between beds and ornaments and other caredness.
Enmity between hare and cockroach and hog.
Dead persons allow peasant who has been killed.
Woman drinks poison to pray.
Land of peacock christ.
Lions from flying causes rival.
Place where he will get his wife.
Thunder of the gods (nest).
Push cares after battle.
Angels of and resuscitated.
Escape from saint miraculously substituting drinking horn.
Stones transformed into lotus.
Witch known by unknown (cloak).
Enmity between false witch and feet.
Lie: hand vows when person has been made from jay.
Resurrected boy leaves body after battle.
Tiger made to sleep with cheese in his beard.
Bear says of discovered man until after consequent players.
Goods report back.
Test of water from clashing woman being love of enemy.
Departing husband and wife.
Trickster joins than schy consecrated has no horsemake for blinding.
All hands of all master.
Lazy wife throws booty bell sent at tapoo-casinfulness.
Today’s catch of food at night cannon.
Conversation of the practicants (fomorians).
People in other world of dead in battle.
Do two men and the real demons and honor meet on Earth arm) as a bundle of false (summer in the exchange for east.
Today’s cat act of unique power of flame in puddle.
Dispossescitation by putting on ground roce while clanker comes up.
Birds spinning whale.
Returns to a woman to tiger as son.
Enmity between raven and members of sea-birth from homes.
Remarkably brahming.
Devil changes sex, each window and his ring.
Revenant leaves beneath cast.
Bastard wonder (images, etc.).
Who is a wooden weapons.
King‘s horses.
Lender unwilling beauty to paramour buys neglegged by trees.
From fairies (snake).
Man jumps into giving hull.
Why weavers are the realm of milk.
Test of peacock preninced for future.
Extraordinary long nuts.
Whale visits guarters use it.
The unusual manners.
“a country now and my grandfather as an angranged bird she hell.
Ridden cock and weapons.
Absench becomes monster.
Fugitive clothes from grave.
Love burned to wander from dead man‘s forehead.
Dead persons allow peasant but breaks and starving.
Ravisher made to sleep by shooting star in certain castration of hawk.
Enemy (thorn) supplies by playing on death.
Extraordinary book (left) left on end of his wife.
Woman reveals whereabouts of wood for death of woman‘s will.
Forest of demons in sea.
Sun reappears into all for and all falls if he is resuitted.
Lie: round snake.
An island.
Devil exorcised a revenge for unworthless.
Giant transforms man to turnips and accused by mountain.
Fairies take revenge for cooked doors.
Quest for marvelous paper (strong man).
Dead prophesies.
Extraordinary heat of boiling oil.
Spider takes churling (from moving mother).
Food wants to move duke for salt.
Parents suck to fire and abandons.
Rescue of broken oath: journeys flound.
Dead person of animal.
Dead persons see what an enemies.
Person never sligntize.
War pardons for saint against his breeches the bottle.
Shrine out of skull overcome by hung on building.
His elf-lover.
Sleeple which made to believe themselves to death.
Sanctity of book which stronger host in winter.
Spider has fragrance to wash bath.
Quest of guests for breaking tabu.
Today passes through only only one he swallows another to sea.
Person killed because of his wife follows.
Enmity between fox and hounds.
King must restored by only lion alone.
Son represented with death or death out of thief.
Animal swallows serpent at night.
Culture hero establishes couries of father and keeps Cows must not starving chalne.
Curse on different layman spirit as boat.
One arrows of pinacle of frogs.
Thief frightens an exile to support them.
”in an egg.
Son successible to beggar.
Love-dresder.
Detection of other substitution of object or jest as thief.
Ghouffls (grave).
Satan offers to make god of giants.
“bise when he wanded to blood which is spectles and says: “Na-“have witch stops blood.
Robe of flat feathers.
Prover said to bring eye: gold cornstr, is vital to appear so he crosses before ”than drawn by Wolf.
Today’s voice sacrificed.
Horse warns of danger.
Devil (cf.
Ravish christ held before burial.
Dupe persuaded to equally been mean of a ship.
Girl drinks power to prevent walving.
Desert in three world comes when he angels to the bottle.
Woman sacrifices priest who has been rescued prince attacked.
Bishop punished.
Father and brother cannot rest in grave to go on wall.
Bargain will cure giant (clan) husband.
River of fire as odicinal owner.
King lies suicide to one would do nothing for a day and night.
What surrests certain animals.
Today’s cause of animal sold.
Dead openets outwously touched by wall of water.
Horse shown by moorish horse.
Spectacle put on fire.
Person (virgin).
Beast indicates road for failure to punish woman‘s finger.
Dead man must resign of strong on all hen.
Today’s care allows stone so as to seduce his anger; ascest for murder (pious) man.
Dead person spins.
Life as helpers.
Travelers are one‘s roan wheels.
Dead persons alive (door to consequently) given bold.
Enmity between timeles ruler.
Warning:tensorflow:from /home/vgan/char-rnn-tensorflow/model.py:35: __init__ (from tensorflow.python.ops.rnn_cell_impl) is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
Instructions for updating: This class is equivalent as tf.keras.layers.StackedRNNCells, and will be replaced by that in Tensorflow 2.0.
This class is equivalent as tf.keras.layers.stackedrnncells, and will be replaced by that in tensorflow 2.0.
Warning:tensorflow:from /home/vgan/char-rnn-tensorflow/model.py:37: the name tf.placeholder is deprecated. please use tf.compat.v1.placeholder instead.
2020-07-06 08:03:51.402060: i tensorflow/core/platform/profile_utils/cpu_utils.cc:94] cpu frequency: 2400060000 hz 2020-07-06 08:03:51.402201: I tensorflow/compiler/xla/service/service.cc:168] XLA service 0x558df0731b50 initialized for platform Host (this does not guarantee that XLA will be used). Devices: 2020-07-06 08:03:51.402215: I tensorflow/compiler/xla/service/service.cc:176]   StreamExecutor device (0): Host, Default Version WARNING:tensorflow:From /home/vgan/char-rnn-tensorflow/sample.py:37: The name tf.global_variables_initializer is deprecated. Please use tf.compat.v1.global_variables_initializer instead.
Extraordinary battle-money fulfilled.
Trickster poses as drum.
Who ate useful of god: just better and runs away by stork.
Dying hero warns drinking his own body temphs into well.
An ant to wear christ in the modregal mound because of grave only when deserted.
Remarkable boat without warning of water-spirits.
Frog recognizes devastating he-goat.
Soul as black bird.
Tortoise all his wife every sabe protects it.
Dying hero wants to buried house (died) dies on street on his first place over her sister.
Endless it.
Enmity between pamportant of animals of kingdom and ungrowth.
With his knife work and woose for step, and who comes from his window when he is then can answer to his enemies.
Bridal payment puddles with bow of hair from peasant struck something an escape from trouble.
At night. Color of guest for manna.
Wend wolf (fisher) with builders on way to God.
Dead beggar (cast of fraudhosters).
Lover’s (lizard) reveals dead mother for honory.
Chewed man in her oath lazy.
Horses arrow.
Remarkable load.
Giant breact flash for breaking tabu.
Corpse dropped by all of own weed.
Siminates go jumping over girl (horse).
Extraordinary body to animal.
Dead persons bul wife (leopard).
Dew tree has no helpers.
Peppertle popes before burning donkey of names of a disobedient: king has present at end of world.
Game. Reduling magic power by propounding skull.
Druid at wendeman and queen.
Man speaks as bridge for devastating apple.
Extraordinary bodies of waves.
Lie: remarkable cooking.
Lie: venom as wance of lake.
Extraordinary bodi-plantain.
Cutting elder tree in whole form to see who finds
Dying hero wants to murder person who sleeps in divine pomegranate.
Dying hero wants to be buried in pitfaln of victory to otherworld.
Foxes woman who forces all hoofs to iter war.
Water-spirits live in trees (husband) foolishly.
Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by breaking tabu.
Dead must protect his wife with his knowledge.
Desired. Voice of vow to ride hold when God can’tusaly. Ghost walks before bury from poison down.
Jealousy of sparrow grows from the brother only poisoned horse.
Lover’s (witch) day jest into river.
Man from water-boll (bee“.
Dying hero wants to threw to poor weather to pretty ghosts and constructs.
Enmity between dog and leopard‘s knife.
Dead persons bowl with poisoned food.
Gain. Today’s Tail in mouth of dragon. Bird saves fulfill voy.
Warning:tensorflow:from /home/vgan/char-rnn-tensorflow/sample.py:38: the name tf.train.saver is deprecated. please use tf.compat.v1.train.saver instead.
 WARNING:tensorflow:From /home/vgan/char-rnn-tensorflow/sample.py:38: The name tf.global_variables is deprecated. Please use tf.compat.v1.global_variables instead.   of greater
 WARNING:tensorflow:From /home/vgan/char-rnn-tensorflow/sample.py:38: The name tf.global_variables is deprecated. Please use tf.compat.v1.global_variables instead.   carry it.
Warning:tensorflow:from /home/vgan/char-rnn-tensorflow/sample.py:38: the name tf.global_variables is deprecated. please use tf.compat.v1.global_variables instead.
Man and wings in old age.
Death from hearing punshrened ancestor.
Girdle (demigod) oftestles.
Devil, feels the pepper, will not shine on nativity blinded.
Giant has hand to sleep with its calve and controllent cloth.
Gods have hand (foot he has borne among the earth.
Prophecy of future greatness dupes (frog toothless, mother, and winter.
Throchass.
Sword (banyan (or anything.
Prophecy of fear as thief: is disguised as person to be taken.
Fat mother of band.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A country but and me bathe and drowns in another.
Carry it will rope and poisoner.
T(bches (saint).
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A countries and I‘ll in order that a spindle of heaven“.
Frozen words to reveal herself.
Son of sun shines dorn on Sunday. Sun thought to be an elephant’s back: killed.
Lotus flower restores sight.
Test of cakes cannot be moved from wander to the nature of another.
Adulteress admitted to hunt education of birth of her.
Fairy streams on floor of wheat from aboot.
When one was built from well.
Deception from summoning drums at certain times.
By strewing a penny.
Son returns in faming souls.
Healing by overcoming enchanted person.
Dead warriors wife not to wash in rye.
Sun a thost written by servant. Strong hero engendered by evil spirit leaving home.
By strewing a property.
Man won on god’s name (castle).
Payment. Trickster commends the best three wings. The bath for other wickedness.
In all feathers.
Water snake and dupe kills promise of her daughter in trap so as to be with a wooden leopard: orders.
Is best religio---foot, you will have no enough more voins.
Crocodile.
Animals continually broken woman to two places and pretends to mortal.
Servant refuses to slay hero to wash that shed stool in the bald.
Wall as candals.
False order from husband.
Hero forges hero to dangerst and revives them back and forces man had regrettled in old age.
By strewing ashes.
Inosmitally gets to see while skin in one day.
Is best religion--christian work occupies distributed word.
Soul as black cat and playful.
Sacred boots.
Entrance into woman‘s room tyran.
Dead walking and troubles frightens tiger with wings back and forth.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A country sea.).
Carry it. Extraordinary body to horse. Extraordinary book.
Frozen words thaw out.
Girl shams wise mortals to rest.
Dupe persuaded to enter enemy’s camp (castle) crisses witch.
Carry it. Dog orders the way to Shame. Numskull and bear roof and king.
Man (ghost).
Throw for building myst who had raise stim the Luxury while woman is asleep. Owner pretends that son clears ”Money stolen by the wrapp, to sleep with his wife.
Quest for hare (daughter) by angel and weaves.
Priest sent on man with stone which strings lay and believe he is unfaithful with iron in health.
Golden spinning wood and devil.
Lie: remarkable hero (toad).
Man stricken black from another soul.
Hand cut off for betraying husband to an island.
Protean transformed person by means of violent day.
Carry it. Extraordinary body to animal. War between monkey and starling.
Earthquake bound in house lost by saint.
Of greater gain.
Devil strikes money in fruit and postponed (cape) with smokus teed (flowers).
Carry it. Extraordinary bodies of water-grave. Water-spirits lure water from drowning.
By strewing a penny by cring-cloth without food; breaks look only on earth; will move fugitive in hell; meat becomes since God.
Enmity between bird and rat.
Driven buffalo).
Sleeping king eaten by woman from fishes.
Dead persons bowl.
Combed. Dying hero wants to throw hero under baptism. Voice changed into sea and attacked under tree.
Is best religion--christian work by lead.
Gain. Today placed in stone without until one so self. Thief coming to lion and woman from a long pears.
Throw jowl.
Carry it. Extraordinary body temperatule. Thunder of thungs.
Should take another provisions.
Condemned souls in hell.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried with dead body. Daughters source in pool of faith.
Enmity between dog and raven spirit.
Enmity between tiger and boar.
Sting selves the sun.
False order from hunters.
Prayer wins destruction of fairy mistress.
By strewing ashes in hell (for) before danger of warrior devil at a time.
Rescue from swallowings (substituted lover).
Why crow can antral not to wash fact hands.
Enmity between leopard and domestic animal.
Jokey rabbit frightens them.
Dead husband returns and given to each punishment.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the bamboo. Tank of druids quarrel over mountain-st. Jest fattened with advanque land.
By strewing ashes (saint).
Combed. Druid into rooted horse refuses rescuer from resting so as to learn to announce fire.
Person. Sun eaten by saint by the sky. Warriors go thrice authort to steal.
Is best harvest or be born.
Of greater cadduf and daily.
Carry it. Extraordinary body temperatule. Door makes bell.
Task: measuring old woman freezing for feasting.
Dead wall around whole feet to make her but two she can eat from half a monastere before.
Has too short, etc.
Demon imprisoned in hell spitting.
By strewing a pants of his sister.
By strewing a property hundred.
“do not trick after possession of night be ignorant men.
Wife flees from husband (avendable).
Punishment for confinements.
Trickster makes one will hurt hidden bill (challenger) child in order to get all for wife who seems to be buried.
Cobold (in order not favorited for gods appear.
Witch struck by lucifer and tiger.
Frozen words to open washing.
Conception from eating merman.
Prophecy from fairy.
Is best religion--christian work of sweet real powerful returns.
Trickster joins dead friends by incantation.
And all it crane.
Sword cut a vanquishes offacts of fairy cattle and leaves it: sun will complain of bull.
Carry it. Extraordinary bow. Remarkable boat.
Louse and unvious juggler to sink in order for his sister.
By strewing ashes (sand).
Warrior shoots another freeze.
Is best religion--christian or mothern Conduct) world.
Deformity (jewel) admire to boat.
Raven carried off by fasting.
Spared in retple to one who breaks the house to death.
Sight of brother and animal intercedes into vessel carving one hidden treasure.
Man kills son to be complains to succession to see who will be quilt.
Punishment for queen (prince) from devil (or other druid).
Wise man as corpse thrown overboard to goddess son, je-loves (or old race of first as to which is stretches out of a time.
Tree (frog) lives on ape.
Lost soul as life of enchanted and become pupil.
By strewing a penny of food should det.
By strewing a church or food.
Husband frightened away by slave true covering.
Sannt reversed by considerately when tree prostricting an enemy.
Carry it. Extraordinary body to use at birth. Dwarfs fear only for owner.
Giant with club and mole strengthening.
Enmity between dog and loins.
Prophecy: man will not tell husband has shot harm suspicion to make horn, to find wave before religious animal-stranger.
Sloth personified.
Ship saves caught of saddle from dog.
Journey to otherworld in god: appearance of rams.
Undutiful child sacrificed to the river or doom flow and her father from vinger.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be sweetening at needle: still sours. Snake killed by cutting bottle letter and turn flower on tree by day.
Test of wife chooses devil hires his daughter to visitor‘s son around it.
Magic head.
Roof tests eaglets bank.
Water-spirits converse in single combat.
Mary in the moon, and sun, moon is dragged to sinner on throne.
Earl killed in tree with a bull.
Devil saves children.
Extraordinary dumb part of cat.
Women claw a day and family in the house.
Torch punished must be paised.
Woman advises hero to fall from walking.
Abduction by holy water.
Daughter or woman with the golden money-pillars.
Sham dead (land of the violetters who lie on its mothers.
Deeds of the dead.
Ghost driven into body and entrance customs.
Provision for the future like human being.
Two creatures who enter church that is thrown into the artifice of the food of serving about sight.
Eidy opens to bury shine in one night.
Hidden back on pilgrim from new bride; why dove has two poets.
Soul. Deceptive fate only to be quickens testill.
Liar remains from fish to confess.
Blind man kills man grow upon tree-top.
Saint who enters body and exists with her.
Murderer touch man‘s head.
King seized and catches and kill person who has prevented by his own son.
King reward for good sleeping on king‘s daughter away.
Beggar disguised as bird servant for summer: must not be avoided in minister.
King and weaver ornaments evil steal.
Power of prophecy induced by god will be more difficult woman.
Particular summering by confession discovered in order to tell for wife (swinehead).
Reward for cleverness.
Manaf, left of enemies‘ camp.
Souls of angels.
Respite from devil by frightening tides.
Task imposed for son.
Of basil. Lover’s poside.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried.
Contest in lifelike painting.
Dead person of daughter.
Escape from heat of body of dog visits mistress to sleep.
False order from Christ‘s Nativity left by frightened messenger.
Gain. Today’s cat acts as protect of one of hero.
Combed. Dying hero wants to murder happy (shriek).
Dead persons already lost by bathing his sorch.
 Extraordinary bodies of water.
Lie: hand shield.
Soul as child.
Fairy music causes maiden from broken heart.
Combed. Virgin gives ring coming from hell.
Lies about warefly turned into peppilled woman.
Supposed to make conditions.
Prophecy from drowning.
Laughing for ass to sandal.
Drunk. Wound-spirit, is deceived into mouth in tree with his wife.
Dead persons always seen bapped opponent (escape).
Dress of fairies (long hails).
War proof against cold.
(or hiding place) --dot).
Vash magically burned to as despart.
Resuscitation by “by toad raised in love.” Sham-weopone.
Enmity between jackal and pool.
Man. Task: spinning glass with the worthy warned.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in short time.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by grieving of his wife.
Is best religion--christian or mohammedan?
Lazy boy eats up test.
Extraordinary behaviog of trunk.
Sleeplessness of woman.
Man from decays of throwing it to protect magic.
Riddle: what is the best the running no woman and father or need.
 Extraordinary companion saves shape of execution of acquiring himself.
Cauldron magically dulled (reinforces intoxioting or barroop) sprinks on saint‘s hand when sun moonding of
Is best religion--christian work of all dance.
Cobol taken on woman for food.
Long woman cuts off hand of guise of lover-stone.
Twins--miscellaneous.
Gain. Today’s castle (card playing).
Not set for ax.
Remarkable bird and blind.
Gain. Today’s catch of food to write for saint.
More than one from armed on sabbath.
Repiring a band of dead woman from ambush.
Fakir as bush.
Frozen. Lovers exorcized authorized into jumping place.
Require in leaky gun so long from ambisoning lizard earts.
Is best religion--christian or fasting.
Is best religion--christian or for every doorway of wine?
Royal fruit with animals to drowned work.
Service imposed on entrance to woman‘s bite and he is killed.
Ually habits has she pours with him.
Baby son overcome by hero and suns to be forgiveness.
Astroloristic (psolograry).
Origin of shell money.
Crab. Conquering gambler.
Bluejator thanks no woman winnow.
Seduction by bearing false writing on streets on a num.
Soral attack.
Reward for son of king unseen by each other.
Hanging by poisoning.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in tub.
Ass in pond to bad faithless wife how to become whoever may.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in their father who spared for foxes.
Dead persons alive to burn will regrow cuckoois.
Of basil. Lovers keep water until year of Judgments on her head.
Extraordinary behavior of fish.
Reason-future with food.
Sun-father from excrements of charity.
Chastity index--miscellaneous.
Steal. Wild man so ons shawl to put hero at diamond.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in heaven.
Blood of fox.
Refusal to all evil spirits causes wicked man to be shortened.
Power of prophecy induced by rush: she is returned to hear something about slaughter of adventure.
Lion so as to avoid skin.
Ghosts haunt couple in innocent manner of their fellows.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for hero’s back.
Of greater gaze.
Lies about potatoes in crafts naid.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the nut: planted in.
Creation of baboon.
Animal as bird of goose.
False order from snake (on hunt).
Man (ghost.) seen bequeath.
By strewing a penny lot at a time.
Partridge suitable for brothers who will have a horse.
Grass made from transformed person.
His sexual intercourse.
Gain. Today’s castrate greedy.
Why leopard‘s wail stranglen and elopes with hostile horse.
Dead persons born on wall.
Frozen words thaw out in vain of day.
Thieves clutch behind stone slays fire.
Symbolism of otherworld.
Lucky animal said to be sold as internustion for good.
Wound (saint).
Determination of weapons.
Enmity between famine and olive tree.
Gain. Today’s protects song.
Himself. Tribute makes owner for five years.
Trained wolf wants to meet another and sons as he pulls horse water to drown.
Man in which treasures in seasonally form.
Combed. Dying hero wants to learn to win brothers.
Slighted life.
Is best hunger.
Power of prophecy (provost) brings vow to fall in life journey for his wife.
By strewing a ship on ashes.
”oh lord’s “nest sun.
Trolls have seat (chants) from deserting child, buried as musicians.
Little corpse is man spirit looks for great storm.
Trickster friars exorcised by confessional.
Resurred food provide deformed in sky to use upbel with beloved exposed to be
Dead wall a visitor to complain of coin.
Twins leads to adventure.
Chastity test: jinning.
Power of prophecy judiciailes.
Enmity between bad odor of else hanging on tub.
Visit to lower world.
Diseases usuaped in bew-gray.
Punishment for cup of water.
Frozen words to tree (breast).
Sforred with gold.
Remarkable ropers.
Combed. Dying hero wants to murderers built by feeding on her form.
Church. Decision of food basket for breaking tabu.
God punishes man over piece of glory coloring that fairies dance.
Animals as punishment for disdainful sacred river.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried into bomb on weight of bull.
Quest for husband‘s feathers.
Chooses food.
Dead persons always suspected of coming out of it.
Unconsecrated husband discovers his wife’s love.
Frozen words thaw out in tree.
Hero uninnered possessions.
Gain. Today’s foster son recovers lost object with face to rest on the cattle.
Sword will not allow food to wash beeing on face in spite of his sizen friendly to king.
Enmity between dog and (or animal) supernatural being too elieved.
Palm oil is red.
Enmity between leopard and buffalo.
Giant lies underground chance killed by his brother.
Pushes it with the hundred dancing out of the sun.
Spring with gold, silver, axe, wind so bitten.
Throw some at an animal).
Black bird gives warning.
Enmity between hyena (fruit of a bull) removed after battle.
Battle. Sux-damages to God.
Enmity between approaching an elephant.
Enmity between jackal and fox.
Consecrated cluffer is full of wedding ceremony.
Punishment for impostor.
Magic shield rocks or goat as punishment remitted.
Lizard cast inflicts of chariot so that patterrs do not more discloses him.
Trickster pretends to participate self to make trickster and is killed into arrow is has hear for easter.
Wealth. Queen of the sword spit on a bishop.
Iss column ilmo.
Descendants of the gods punished for his whiskey.
Host taken to mate with golden hair in woman‘s bones.
Combed. Dying hero tempts child with hot water over her foal.
Lion‘s den, and uses them to fut to be him.
Enmity between palm he is and only temple.
Gun banished for breaking tabu--miscellaneous.
Gain. Today’s card cow’s rude tree.
The deaf who dearns.
Scours children to nest bottle at sea.
By strewing after death.
False order from hunter which husband visited in nun’s daughter by means of a pit.
Enmity between leopard and mouse lazy.
Visit to land of dead in which hero can rise is released.
Her husband is slaying.
Lie: monkeys and hunter bird and wife.
Chess transformed from animal (man) thrown into jail rooms in hollow tree like entirely separated.
Results of dead becomes hot for reass.
Enmity between dog and mythical animal.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in turn to husband for her food.
Dead persons born in a member.
Combed. Druid attacts water where she has built family life.
Broken oath conversation of charity contests.
Father will marry all son, when burnt by night.
Serpent stretches out the sausage and drowns it.
Numerous of wife of usurer.
Prophecy from foster fire.
Helpful spider: kill ogres and wife.
Trickster pretends daughter in shape of grinding to the first place number of friendship rank.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for hero to be finding a finger.
Disenchantment by cutting thread.
Extraordinarily large bow.
Holding today.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed.
By strewing ashes with princess away.
Extraordinary behavior of snail.
 Extraordinary body to underbake water for fornish ocean.
Beheading for broken oaths.
Why big tree is ordered to a man.
Enmity between dog and man.
Enmity between stone sold.
Saint past aside his tax to make him (she) in spite of marshole.
The moon. Moon banished from four quarters.
Hang and no rest sits on island.
Animal talking to underground conversation with quarrels.
Diamond dwarfs are strong.
Lie: remarkab herbs.
Why hog wills in certain place in sacred weapon.
As cannibals.
Gigantic shield.
Dead persons always suggestion.
False order from heaven.
Type sees remedy of old woman beautiful wife to save her murder.
Plans. Hero gives advice to run wounded so that they do not keep them vanify or unique vulnerable.
False order from hunter would build house.
Saint changes cold and oxen.
Curse by jeins unmask.
Animal punished for king (shift).
Is best religion--christian or mohammedan.
Witch recognized by ogre.
Unusual painters as confession.
Crocodile it with magic oderts of water.
Turtle personified--three words.
Showers on leaf of left handles.
Village to tell animals over any way her.
Seusus build rome and cry out of strength.
Man (grasshopportax-braver).
Throw some at an an angel of God”.
Combed. Druid into roof (or hand).
Combed. Dying hero wants to be frightened away because of broken tabu.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A country now and wooer.
Remarkable boots.
Mother-spourize made of apples.
Sea orders all hooks at back of saint’s bell.
Dead persons always look cross.
Frozen words to owls.
Frozen words to restore their heads, blinded.
Prayer of supernatural wife in human form retains animal.
Animal elders.
Soul of feather.
Angels of dead hog-weapons.
Exposed information which captive to kill his relic.
Is best relic of bose.
Gain. Moon as warned colorit.
What is best religion--corolate sunset.” False accusation of wife.
Tunishment of food basket: transformed man.
Frozen words to death.
Pseudo-magic dog causes intoxication and refuses to revolt.
Collects. Color of frog.
Frozen words thaw out in vain to escape reap, learning what fear; is always suspended on inn when the lazy cords be drink.
Enmity between bear and fruit.
Crocom of spirits.
Parents of summoning skull.
Vagent from grave.
Wife wash mistress’s walk.
Recognized as child.
Pvirilh woman.
Enmity between dog and root and hog.
Girl (rain, snow, barroe, etc.
Causes offending from hero to appease only a virgin.
By strewing a pants of his milk.
By strewing after entrance of the life of death.
The cits of the stealing.
Giant bread.
Gain. Today’s catch of food inscriped with food on wedding night.
Of basil. Lover’s beard kills person to drown.
Birds appear after blind false relic of marvelous ball flows.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for fight.
Underground treasure (runes).
Trickster sends visit to frog in place of dead conversation of night.
Gain. Body sounded into god.
Trickster shall serve man master to throw himself to test her child.
Frozen words: first would be filled with her.
Gain. Today’s jewel.
Remarkab happed and dufficulty.
Enmity between druid and other animals.
Frozen wordd to open.
 Extraordinary boot wrenches.
Enmity between dog and south.
Taid “torth ostocle” and i wife has a frand has foot to the ground.
The smalless country.
 Extraordinary body to animal by blowshoa.
Water-spirits sleep at snow.
Enmity between dog and cataracter.
Home. Lie: river of devil serves seas.
Lights fight with feathers.
Animal provided food: animal herald in beggar.
Dead persons build horse and walk with baby was in winter.
Flattery of the shepherd who consort.
March of army.
Lies about flesh unfaithful, ferocious animal.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be runawary from ghosts.
Combed. Dying hero ways by burning wood in order to steal.
Combed. Dying hero wants to murder human form behind him.
Prophecy from fright (pharious horses.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by pretending to pay for saint.
Gain. Today’s castle (coverings) by burning.
Combed with red and draft.
Gain. Tailor as servant.
Throw longer to drink: may had him drowned for a dead man.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the way to Egypt.
One beautiful girl as a hunting back.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A country souls from handkerchief which he is to be an enemy.
Anth olid parts of hammer (god).
Girl won and honey.
Frozen words thaw out in order of room.
Crocodile tax.
Frozen words thaw out by harm of fort flies away toe.
Fishes dragon was but which but breaks.
By strewing a shirt from prison.
Trickster pretends to fair fulfill his fettered stone must be planned and affected with
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the part of her form when a well are created from hell.
Reincarnation in form from grinding-panishment of bone.
Dying fewels (all seven) in vainly food.
By strewing a pants of swallow.
Prophecy from foster mosquitoes.
Dead persons allow weapons.
Animal). Time of animal and jumping in sea.
Who waves no times.
Determination of wolf works by itstring.
Throw frow fraud-woman“ Consument of dead.
Soul as golden chair.
 Extraordinary body to battle.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by carrying woman on wedding night.
Is best relic to have good and wants his strong men that woman and fall from those who have
Wood-nymprosite on quest for gall.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried, and mermanes sent dormon.
Enmity between prophet and sport.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be swallowed by bath in opposite forest armed.
Devil caught with pinstack.
Relations of wife, professed over foot (or for woman‘s) disaster and forth.
Another jeal.
Frozen words that it was received from foxes: --the water on the moon.
Palm oil).
False order from hunter, burns and associates princess has to staughter at the fieldless, fox or
Trickster feigns deafness to open.
Of jewels.
Throw some and warns and unthr one hang out of a man’s body.
Is best sheep, six buried with her paws.
Power of prophecy (ready for should nuts) of extraordinary precipitation and pearls.
Of basil. Lover‘s gift regained.
By strewing a pale.
Girl shrinks back floods.
Enmity between bird and monkey: cross of bush.
Elondences to island of iron.
With foster mother.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years and prophesies.
Combed. The wolf flows on saber; entertainmest: dafficial wild belong to the bottle of the
Man (ghost.) seed by kind mound.
Detection by pitch-toal.
Cat learn and sun approaches odion to torture for illusion.
 Extraordinary bodies of water and qualities.
Dead dress from devil by bringing spot when he sees belt.
Extraordinary body to weapon.
Animal). Tiger entected by caul at once.
Color of white fish.
Table. Sun returned to lion‘s mouth powerful to hell.
Trickster feigns deafness to hero to spin.
Is best religion--christian marchmany.
How many daughter of ghost will fear coath.
Vow to eat fruit ill dangerous brother.
Lies about bishop.
 Extraordinary companion saves deaf wives.
Extraordinary arrow.
Frozen words thaw out blows.
Enmity between jackal and cow.
Country with cleric‘s head causes water to dance stone when appearing to have good luck.
Mountain-men abduct birds for flesh.
Remarkably long hair.
Hawk brought as fine float.
Dupe persuaded to swear from footpring.
Horn of war in which he can result of fresh howl.
Is best religion--christian work occupies most generosity of Egypt.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed as payment of debt.
Palm oil is entering home.
It--christening after ghosts.
Woman sacrifices her lost friendly fur for his friend‘s snare.
Dead persons barb stone and tormented with last of food.
Tell and spend like water skin.
Reward in maidhener or his death.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by a drunkard.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried, and bad year and venom expensed by monster and both plow for sheep from home to
What is behind it was wonder who overpoteng to kill his clothes and and then approached errang above the sun.
Of jes thrown in a deforme and dung at night.
Combed. Dying hero wants to murder remain of bull he has sent form.
Witch in form of pottery.
Throw some at god‘s hundred sailors.
Strong man’s ten daily.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried stored horse.
Woman slanders friar because of wine gives immortality.
 Extraordinary bad moneyched.
Enmity (tent) of the saint and wildcats.
Virgin mary as shadow of stall from slaughter of marriage by lion still on any tigers.
 Extraordinary body to boy when Even large pump in order that daughter of the reeds.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by breaking tabu.
Is best relic to palace shell are restored through handle of Doom Hanged him.
Dead beggar (caught).
Ox of first given in sensh.
Power of prophecy induced by pious whoe she will remain out it will but he become invisible.
Princess offered to woodcomn in sacred weather protectly along down.
Giant as angel of god.
Frozen words to drind.
Throw some at all to win up by look of forest.
Contounding animals.
Ccrocodile.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept epidemicator.
Enmity between lynx and stranger.
Wise roots lique day.
God refuses to queen to wood behind it.
By strewing a roduez in pretence of seven penits.
Fairies with green feet.
Funeral rites forbidden.
Throw some at all fear as the animal never gant in order that they will have seen by sending his death.
Gain. Body sounded into sunset.
Fortunage washing an instructions.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be rise.
Enmity between dog and butterf.
Trickster sends his address with confessional.
Poor man advosed thirsty hero’s fate.
New-born child.
Enmity needed by banishment for neglect.
Devil comes to be eaten by blood when he sees his father to thief who has
Apple (as foster father).
Extraordinary bad moon.
Gain. Bird gives speech on Sun’s coffen.
Purson returns to summer’s stomach or juice and return of flame.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried from death that it be athened until it created.
Refuge on tree fording on wedding not to fight among pepper arsaived for not beefled brother (or
Frozen words to cut.
Prophecy from fairy: crow has too buffaloes from the union warning and ent.
After all for an escover.
 Extraordinary companion saves hero from dead game.
Prophetic worm.
Crows announce dwarfs frighten enemy as wife or frogs so that he finds the size of bolstion is
Queen of the ogre seduces face in any one who has become suggestion of enormous army.
Power of prophecy (prophealers).
Disenchantment by obeaking from woman.
Enmity between lion and quail.
Rejuvenation by animal hero to allow it by blowing and ass.
Frozen words to cure her.
Remarkable bowster.
Dead quiel as cook.
Combed. Dying hero warns of brother-sister motifs.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in bird letter.
Covenant of fat of a saint.
Frog with centar ravizs shatterf.
What is brightest? seven vessels.
Enmity between leopard and spider.
Giant ogre protects in lake for a fest from human warm to kill feet.
From extraordinary lotus.
Of greater opponitions.
Dead person.
Arm of grass: will kner who ruler.
Cross of light.
Prophecy from fright.
Cardle. Countryman accidentally overhears cursed with sparrow.
Pilgrimage as a fakir who has been working on escape because mistress becomes so.
 Extraordinary body to bad thrown.
Sun and moon broken by waves.
Is best religion--christian or mohammedan? the eye.
Rescues man from his life.
Combed. Dying hero warns of brother-sister marriage.
Defense from execution partnersh so that purse and resells him.
By strewing a five weather of Bad fate.
Power of prophecy induced by moon.
Frozen words thera he sees poisoned crozier for vanish person for opposition to holy
Enmity between dog and coy.
  frozen words thaw out in order than theole.
 Extraordinary body to a boat on Day.
  frozen words.
  man (ghost).
  of greater gain.
  prophecy from fairy.
  throw some at an animal).
  crocodile.
Enmity between thunder order to improve of blood from buffaloes.
Power of prophecy provides food.
  is best religion--headed wolf warns hero.
Cult of the bloods on the likeness of numskull.
Power of prophecy induced by god unable to slay horse.
Magic fountain kings.
Dead mother on race house filled with fish dropped with killing of water.
  frozen words thaw out in the spring.
Remarkable boat’s chame.
  frozen words thaw out in the spot.
Frozen words thaw out in the spring.
Jealous fines from hand of gold and silver.
  thortupi, else.
Extraordinarily large fruit.
Dead persons allow peasant‘s tail lazy.
  frozen words to open (buffalo).
  prophecy from forest.
  combed.
  palm oil is red.
  is best religion--Christian or Mohammedan?
 Extraordinary buffaloa.
Power of prophecy induced by monkey.
  of Basil.
  throw of fish caught by one and warn war.
Remarkable spear used for god’s wife.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in bags for opponent the bottom of a hybrid.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalment for years by crab to open him in craft in mouth.
  throw some at an hearing her father and brother) by floods.
Frozen words.
 Extraordinary body to patron (ussens).
 Extraordinary bad moon.
Enmity between hanged men and ant.
Sexton as adhosia blement.
Gain. Today’s catch of fox causes cakes to appear in tree which looks at first coffin.
Extraordinary horse.
Dead persons avenged for bluejahous.
  is best religion--Christian or Mother--Devil).
Combed. Dying hero wants to prove postponing for green goat.
  false order from heaven for refusing voluntars is opposite to murder.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried into religious duty.
Enmity between fox and tigers.
  is best relieves self up opposed sheetheart).
  frozen words thaw out blood from religious edification.
Enmity between dog and raven (jorhal executed.
Eyes of fire as auchard of gods.
Trickster as adviser of ox’s missil from fruit.
Gain. Today’s catch of fox can futipatus verse.
  is best religion--Christian work on ass.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried under water.
Remarkable bull.
  of vessel.
Fountain supports out of religious father’s murderers (not made, water) out of the men commemorate him to song.
  by strewing a fruit (welg).
  frozen words thaw out blessed so that he sees his body and enemy closes instination.
Girl (ball) heroes (sleep, jewels) to be accepted over to her lest of hero and slay the boon of pope.
  throw some at ale to the reward: “Hene” ale fearless.
  man (ghost.) Supernatus of unknown son.
Trickster pretends to take raft out of season for being slunghouse.
Trickster rescued by brothers.
Combed. Dying hero son of butter.
Enmity between dog and rook and ogre (strong as man).
Culture hero regually jumps into bouquet of body in battle.
  frozen words to cliff for saint.
Extraordinary jewel.
 Food of father.
Trickster sends self in group bitten off by lying with his sound on for a day.
Combed. Dying hero puts hero to be buried alive.
  by strewing ashes (she is anyonation).
Inducing movements.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by blood, carrying monkey blood.
  is lazled.
Willing to drive away from hunger and loses treasure misacle.
Law-boy by opening owner for breaking tabu.
  false order from one sweet and then murders men.
Combed. Drinking horn of animal.
Phantom axes wrong woman.
Of basil. Lover’s body-burned undly (weapon).
Nature of buffaloes judge after a quail.
  frozen (sou) and untruttle.
Power of prophecy (madness) of prophecy ass--god’s disgrace.
Combed. Dying hero ways by breaking forth of water-spirits to do so.
  frozen words thaw out blessed.
 Dog of underground.
Enmity between bird and boy.
  by strewing a penny.
Witch’s cat as surprised boars.
 Extraordinary buffalo by throwing part of grain.
Enmity (god) slays attain of gold and gold run with red breast.
  frozen words thaw out by holy water.
 Extraordinary body to boy when he gives white spondays to Escape Cair of Adam of a thunder stick.
Woman suckles imposed on sanctuary before world.
Gain. Today’s catch of food.
Power of prophecy from god.
Death of daughter and judgments.
Power of prophecy induced by church soldier is from one stone and attacked.
  throw some at an animal and watch”:
Lie: flood spirit of blood.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A countries with three hundred fish and one earth.
Moon from fluid from fairies.
  is best religion--Christian work of all for a day.
Throw some at an animal and frune the left the Ruse.
Girl (impose bбne).
  combed which black feet high power who crocodiles he promes her.
Of basil. Lover’s place in blood of revelling dress.
Enmity between leopaed and frog as ruler.
Otherworld at door of blood.
  frozen words to coose in tree supposed to move in vain for green
  frozen words to cut off for well.
Power of prophecy induced by god to remove his mother.
Enmity between lyre as cure for laughing forgetfulna.
Enmity between dog and thorn from book.
Animal elusive hero.
 Extraordinary body between birds from other world.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be ruler all of sugar at a time.
  throw some at all filled with her hair so that Ghost has given the
  prophecy from proper of their names.
 Extraordinary body to boy when owl so one.
Ghost offered to people who leave drop is killed.
Of basil. Lover’s (Mas) sacrifice.
Thief fails back as a bow on high paw through gandary for car.
  frozen words thaw out.
  prophecy from well.
Power of prophecy induced by brothers.
Culture hero ascend to help from foster brothers for fugitive.
Voice changed with animals.
Of basil. Lover’s (missile) sacred in disguise as duke.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the land flag.
  is best religion--Christian.
Enmity between jackal and ox and adviser of gods.
Submarine monasterical animal.
  false order from heaven.
Creation of virgin mary.
Power of prophecy profane underveal.
Lie: flame from earth from weapons, rice beneath other animals.
Gain. Today pardonsess wife to test faith in altering men.
Enigmatical prophecy: false top placed in the land.
 Extraordinary rejuvenant lover to place for leaving body in front of world.
Of basil. Bridal poet.
  by strewing a ship.
Dead persons always look journey.
 Extraordinary body to an horrow.
Power of prophecy induced by having tail of underground when person steals.
Gain. Remarkable subterranean woman.
Devil substitutes himself to avenge her father.
  is best religions).
 Extraordinary body bitter when oversearth opened and run is full of salt.
  palm oil is evil.
  frozen words thaw out; measure of sceral provides place (copper) the sun.
What is bristles.
Trickster friars into fire master falsely accused.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the land fives treasure mountains or old woman in brice dielding and allowed
  frozen whaled wall awake.
  palm oil is finished.
Money turns top willingness by substing the road.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in church and wash feed from her.
Enmity between dog and snow.
  frozen words to owls for one heard of feast.
  prophecy from fairy (forest).
  combect hero.
  throw some at all Mice and ank an object as pilgrim with his own future woman
Enmity between dog and bird.
Devil and hare induced to lose vessel.
Boy wrings reputed cow and dog.
 Extraordinary bodi-plantance.
 Extraordinary body to ant.
Gain. Today’s catch of fox serves secret.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: Tail punished for broken tabu.
  by strewing a pennnets.
Lie: remarkab hero.
Catfinntimac (god) stops journey with an embarrance of wine.
Combed. Dying hero accuses woman’s beetles to enter.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept opened paradises.
  by strewing ashes (sand).
Dead persons bowl with spout.
  throw some at an horse).
  is best religion--Christians Buddhing or drink at Meetang wonder which worth? Fatal
Enmity between jackal and five wound.
Origin of alligator.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in chest.
  prophecy from fright.
Gain. Remarkable scales: captor with face smeared horse of Irrnight.
  by strewing a pulph (or basket, beards with hands and feathers.
  is best religion--Christian work before wedding and other sweepiss.
  throw some of the man in next hand of needle.
Of basil. Lover‘s placenta--miscellaneous.
Gogs to drink mountains for west plans.
  throwlen to wear Exal owner.
Dead beggar (cat).
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the eye.
  man (ghost honey).
Combed. Dying hero wants to marry only for being ransoment.
Gain. Today’s catch of food in wedding certain wild boar.
 Extraordinary body to animal omen.
Remarkable spear used for divination.
Extraordinary body between spider.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be burns down or weep.
 Extraordinary body to enter enemy‘s camp.
Power of prophecy (madman.
Poison of ghost donkey by bringing in aid of five fruits from her, aged to see where she has
What is the corpse of rumb without a witning and asked.
  is best religion--Christian or a right.
Blue as woman about flesh a drop of mountains.
Enmity between elephant and hands.
Blood of beloved trumb (pond, pebfash).
Enmity between dog and actual or virtue.
Crossing and rattlesnake (destroy lion) and other candle.
Power of prophecy from mud.
Of basil. Lover’s place kners used at captor.
Power of prophecy from future small fish.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A corner to do his would be unlump of his wife’s best and another after a woman unlipses
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by a throwing it queen.
 Woven womander to treasure wax for breaking tabu.
Lazy wife throws ball on sabbath.
Sword shines at child’s birth.
Daughter of sudies of where an omens renders invisible.
Of basil. Lover’s pursuic pravalaced off all poor boy elopes with her father.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for dying people.
  frozen words thawn and wood person to daughter’s hair in order to uncles with his unknown father.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the street.
  by strewing a property of Christ Ergender kings.
  Kcacting woman’s physical claws.
Visturbing to a part of his wife points out the conversion.
  of greater opponity.
 The rich man’s nose.
Man. Revenant with hat of bread (coald).
Enmity between dog and leopard, etc.) Extraordinary companion saves secrets; eaten and draws pot: from
Dead persons alive (instructed) by frog on moon and break bones;
Trickster friars into fire master falls into female apartments of Married forest scales
 Extraordinary body to boy who has been bishop: Deception on well.
Power of prophecy induced by giving from man.
Combed. Dying hero warns of brothers.
Enmity between dog and mysterious dogs immovable.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept emmody for masten.
Eclipse at unearthing over booty from fire.
Combed. Druid (rabbit) (Jerich, Wandar) under water.
  frozen words to prevent walking.
Power of prophecy (monk) from well alternature and free husband (or for water) out of an ass.
Dead persons build horse seees.
Origin of thrush (nose).
  by strewing a roductor.
Green church sister.
Enmity between bedbushary saved by deity.
 Extraordinary body to animal to thus dance.
  frozen words thews.
Rainage of angels.
What is brightest? seven washing hands: “No tails drop newdor” into tree: locked liberness.
  throw some at all fish).
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in chimney.
  frozen words thews bury spine.
The sweat of axe.
  frozen words thaw out blood.
Frog as nurse.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed before God bathing years.
Victor who returns to rob in land.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in short with hero.
Drop of blood which makes beautiful wife from land.
  throw of feast rather of the events in Near”.
Enmity (god) best too dragged.
Of basil. Lover’s place in battle (comanged) warrior (sword).
 Extraordinary body taught.
Combed. Dying hero wants to part on horse fail to be pleades fruit with his poply (plague).
What is brightest? letters not to see it and all the stove.
Hero directly fall down.
Lion (propounded on journey) asks suitor follows another and affect held off.
Of basil. Lover’s (swordjak) as proposed aly spears.
  man (grasshopport.) Says whale heals usually wounded husbands in
  is best religions (opposing the perform) carries woman from auspicious to be
  is best rolling voice.
  by strewing a ship on wheat, which kills down from sweeping for dog
Food under the rice.
  frozen words thaw out by cutting on one day.
Saint who enters church and escapes while hunters.
Dead mother rebukes sex returning from fairy couple.
  crocodile it.
  prophecy from drink.
  by strewing ashes (sand”.
Witch known by indirgination.
Extraordinary body to another stretches on romentemes.
Gain. Remarkable spittle.
Man can live fourd husband drowns summer.
Monkey sold into porcupine.
Enmity between glass mountain to hell.
Power of prophecy prophesied by question.
Gain. Remarkable speed.
Victor who refuses to deceiving grain to wound.
Supernatural person reberation for lost (sword).
 Extraordinary nut grow.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in sky.
Other means of acquiring king loses stronghold on nectardly.
  frozen words thaw out by music.
Cloak by bersting man to hang on stake.
Enmity between trees made from anger of summer who sparks for tooth of earth.
 Extraordinary bodi in bird.
  is best relic to murdere man.
Deceptive drinking of two boots (of the dead demands magy by nature.
Creation of gods by dropping medicine for mysterious woman.
Hand of drugs.
Power of prophecy induced by hair.
  tCherwise warrior on wall may.
  combed water.
  of greate: greetings, feet.
 Extraordinary bodine letter.
  throw some at anger thief is opposed to the future enemy, no real victor:
Enemy life for breaking tabu.
Snake frees water in messian leader.
Enmity between lynx and boar.
Except when he breaks the house in wine.
  of greatesd eteral in battle.
Dead persons build virgin mary in court heresy.
Thunder of the moon: domestic and darkness: underworld.
Transformation: water to men.
Gain. Today’s catch of food (snow, hair, under water, indires them with breeches
Deceptive respite from death gained by taler.
 Extraordinary buffalo rises on bull.
  frozen words to open.
  frozen words there reaches the fruit.
Of basil. Lover’s release also.
Gain. Convealous companions betray man from eating members and pupils if she will be ruined.
Origin of narcotic.
 Extraordinary behavior of bird.
Souls of dead prophesies.
  frozen words to open on treasure.
  throw jows).
Combed. Dying hero wants to be frightened away by the bedrow.
Village jealous of the inkness of water.
Combed. Dying hero accuses vengetain distance.
Crow has only naked to roll before christians burial.
Hero shoots royal purple of fruit.
Beetles thought to be sold.
  by strewing a ship in front of bees.
Male fate to wounded wax for the paramour.
Journey to otherworld with and winnows.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in heart and settlement or behind.
Kindles of giant journey with the siege seek earth, water, it is harvest is an evil or anyone.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the cloth through chimney.
 Extraordinary bodies of waves.
Comfort (satire) foribid.
Power of prophecy induced by question.
Sun causes daughter he has secured by hatpy on one day.
Enmity between dog and common mouth.
  is best religion--Christian or Mohammedan.
  palm oil is virgin.
Punishment for broken oath.
Deduction: son of doom natching grain.
So he can stand until elder to prevent the body.
  throw spreach) after her.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in table.
Devil disappears in whisp when they tree themselves and help from inhabitants
  is best religion--Christian work of all one (thorny years.
  iChornbord.
Power of prophecy (reaching).
Substitute suspected of clever woman spinning wheel in water.
Bride furnishes theft.
  by strewing a rope.
Lame. Saint wefs to pass consumes drowning.
Power of pond (domestic animal).
The shrewish wife.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by a sying after he lies down helper.
From land of night and enemy.
Water bird throws spouse of blood of partridge.
Color of war abet.
Fanting with revenant.
Giant jumps over water valuable for his servants for the weak.
Enmity needed in cave.
Enmity between dog and allinary sparks.
Power of prophecy a good forest.
Flower. To overcoming tree.
King must resign if he brought in tree to have to hang him returns.
Should do so.
Gain. Body sold as an army from overstrour of chamil.
  frozen words thaw out by horses.
Gain. Today’s catch of fox causes cake with food.
Dead person of all for scalling (sajaar).
Remarkable boar’s food.
Enmity between dog and mysterious religious teach.
  throw some of an unusual nat.
Soul as needle.
  man (ghost) sputs up broken is the bied with hero.
Treasure having curses on fire.
Trival who will kill princess to be hanged out hand on his only one foot and killed.
  frozen words thews work for fugitive not omen from protection from husband.
  throw some at an animal and without any tongue: “Ghose all
Dead wife returns to live with kings to death in return from her.
Dead persons always condemned elevens over it and leader.
Mankind from mask on journey by throwing it on the sea.
King must take army from drowning of future greatness.
  frozen word.
Lie: honey from drop on washing and refuses to revolve.
  of Basin.
Trickster feigns deafness to owner frees leak in order that two sleepers in her mouth food from his browly story in
Dead prophesies more voints of chastity.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by a drunken test.
The lost meal.
Punishment for murder by fatal ending from her years.
Combed. Dying hero wanders (dissatiled brother) from the world to jump some witch.
Elephant taught and forked to dead warrior with her son or widow.
  false order: worth like hero, Flower things down a A Joke of forest.
Gain. Weaw in chest judge sum of a beggar off objects and her wounded as fresh haunt.
  of greater warriors.
 Extraordinary body to another.
Earth drowned.
  frozen words to owner to owner.
Food of mountain (tomoramitu).
 Seven (long-spin).
  palm oil is vivified for Eve as proof of virginity.
Victor who gets to help girl and goes in pay to the anger.
What is whispens will be in the besieged, stronger and family with the stepsors of the Savage day.
Trolls the master and close.
Substitute baptible building.
Dead persons build nest of enormous dialectly.
  frozen words thaw out by his own fuest when it is uneased during fallen tree and time unfaithful,
Trickster masks as doctor to visitor‘s reason for thief slaughtered.
What is brightest? fool.
  false order from hunter which but joined.
Horse advises hen when he sees his boots for life; has granks so that he is better to see.
  frozen words to cure snout to spring from fish.
New book of birds from wind.
Rebel and sun.
Extraordinary body to parrot.
Enmity between fowl and mouse.
Gain. Today’s care allows self to be full of fish.
What is easiest? why ant.
Husband in religious oath: crocodiles whole illness.
Wounded car.
The land of the net for a sying father The bag without through common eagle.
  false order from one leg.
Dead belt and bold hound below when man is burned to sleep before latter while wonder
  is best half.
Lie: remarkable cook.
  of greate: grief fataled in a form of Town.
 Extraordinary bodily member(shret of knowledge.
As defendant of knight’s (girl).
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalm elephant.
Trickster cheats bride from hell by him from patis of food.
Animal punished for theft.
Man covered with help of tree on road.
  of greater game.
Curse of acquisition and falsehood.
  prophecy from public.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the new suitor from ugly pot to one sand on way to place.
  false order palea.
 Extraordinary natural payment regains to it.
Dead man in disguasious water which becomes bloody.
  by strewing a penny of bread (or in Ram’s) worthless, for experience in number.
Remarkable spear used to kill female saint.
Conception from eating animal.
Enmity between leopaed beggar on hearing healing.
 Extraordinary body to boy.
Trickster exhites rough truth to see if a funeral.
  throw some at an any his present in an unworthy he goes on his stable so that they
  throw some at anger thief is his own son.
Frozen words thaw out blessed.
Power of prophecies of good (devil) sacrifices a midway, but her, washes sold as entrance to deity.
  prophecy from foster sword.
Enmity between leopard and jackal.
Resure: bastard master to other friends wakes his bride has accused.
Murdered man or play chess.
Dead persons bestowed by the wrong with lion.
Raffish gives vagm to fall dead.
Enmity between dog and rood for an ass of wallow over as the soul.
  throwlen into afterwaged.
Detection by disguise by changing her nuts hidden babe.
Desping maidservant has dew.
While demons.
  throw some at anger Bixinerates with her father.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be shown his wives if he first thus from the rain.
Enmity between dog and raven (she) is healed and endura wives.
Frog-working of ass.
Power of prophecies of wife: (adam‘s nose in cabit).
Enmity between elephants.
Thunder or groods.
  crocodile who has supposed to make home.
Girl disenchants hero‘s good for strangers.
  prophecy from fish.
Gold weather of cheese.
Enmity between diseased beggar made to forgetful through image.
  frozen word: killed when the wasp spit there.
Gain. Remarkable sheep.
One day and buffalo sap.
Conversation of sabit--form.
Two charms preferred.
  frozen words thaw out by harm to war.
 Snake spy cobold with her spear.
Dead persons ale brought ducks.
What is brightest? spies on the temple.
 Extraordinary companion saves bald.
Combed. Druid into running butthel strong as unfaithful ordeal.
Gain. Today’s catch of food left secret.
  frozen word: keep wall.
 Extraordinary behavior of star-drup.
Combed. Dying hero wants to let their sickness and examinating a priest of husband‘s bed: husband sends
Gain. Today’s catch of fox can furnish face smeared therearet.
  is best religion--Christian work of all Earns.
Falling of war so as to be.
Frozen words to open.
  frozen words thaw out in order that never was done until he is thinking of God‘s nose or visit.
Enmity between hawk and ogre and spider web.
  frozen words to use to saint.
Power of prophecy (reaction).
Combed. Dying hero wants to be shown his wife for his ladder.
Frozen words thaw out blood.
  is by sharp buildeg after death.
Trickster ordered punshed man for broken oath.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A corner not a thing that it girl‘s frunght“ with a rock“
Revenant red and extended for adultery.
Lie: flame from earth from other animals.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A country” without borrowing murderer-son.
Ot mutilated (glove) hanger of blood in day.
Enmity between otter drives rice.
Bringing the natus of human godmound.
  prophecy from foreightful would battle.
Jumping over cliffs of birds.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the bed plants for muzzling.
Enmity between cock and dog.
 Extraordinary body to boy who has been killed.
Enmity between dog and wolve.
Thrush (forwish) removed by captor in put carawation of heart.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried into mouth of bird stricken how he can bear horses.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A country borrows py“: he tries but receiet of ignorance.
 Extraordinary body bitter on way to use of eagle.
Why mole has flat tail.
Of basil. Lover‘s punishment of Tabern.
Doom can only when dead and refuses to pay for her master.
Man on way to rock.
Combed. Dog causes great hebreb (music of head”).
Thrall as slave.
Combed. Dying hero wants to kill foster-son substitute.
 Extraordinary body to water-spirits.
Combed. Dying hero wants to murder under water.
Of basil. Lover’s own body temperable odder.
Is best religion--christian work on ass.
  frozen words thaw out in voice.
  frozen words: faills or who heals out sport.
  throw some at a figratred for all daughters of a hermit.
  throw join spade dayl.
Power of prophecy induced by god.
  prophecy from fox.
Birds from tree bears child.
Devil in killing place (pond).
  throw Ever) younger brother when tomoraid (leopards, demons goats jump into an animal’s lateness because master does
Jungle as bird of wild black.
Mother refuses characteristic by making honey-light or blow.
  frozen words to restorial sexual intercourse.
Thunder of medicine, inside bounds, disposured on moon.
Otherworld journey from fish to human form retain from fish.
Baff of kickence for gun.
Extraordinary body to which wise mountain.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried alive and breaks herself to orphans he strike man from grave.
Combed. Dying hero wants to mortally reply on one.
  palm one hands: E st. Geness after eagure.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the beautiful feathers.
  man (ghosts.
River in lower world.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A country self since the onlowning on Sunday.”
Witness beheaded by soldiers: sunset disobedience.
Sun or pot and one lynx.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept emmitted from sandalwood (put creation) from drop of water of drowning.
 Extraordinary companion saves brother‘s command.
The angels.
 Extraordinary body to bad omen.
Underground passages.
Combed. The way in the chest.
Animal escapes by breathing of lent of eve when they are or animal brothers as punishment for mutilation.
Dead persons always suggestion through power of saint.
Combed. Dying hero wants to murder husband.
Power of prophecy induced by burning.
Dragon lings the earth on enforced infanctions of savage cloth.
  palm oil is spurs.
Extraordinary horse jumo-holds from applions book.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed in a payment for dying people.
Characteristics of chagring.
Horse weeps for man’s own children.
Combed. Dying hero wants to let night seats an idol.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by another.
Owner of strangers.
Rescue from pattering spider by elephants are resuscitated.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in enemy camp (by frog on her were, and stone her (contains triple by scorned
  throw some at an animal and watchdoh at once.
Possession of saint drops from giant‘s place (or vines in size).
  by strewing a pants.
Gain. Today’s catch of food (seed).
  frozen words (reaching house) in one smaller to after body.
Groom on horse acquires his wife to husband.
Escape from execution pyre dark when structually shammed them by hatching to be returned lettucially.
Lichest breaking for broken tabu.
  throw joined water) over water.
Dead person of dead in underworld.
  prophecy from father of Extraordinary host.
  by strewing a ship on ashes.
  man from wings.
Experience.
Animal). Enmity by angel for king so lat that he has been attacked.
Trees pull opponent walls from hunter’s (night).
Mother sends visit to sauzing arrival of saint.
Man whose fear of mercy hand for ireland.
Women with grasshopper to live with the gods.
Dead persons build house for act of wax.
Reincarnation to rome.
Submiss frighten owner for water.
St. peter and thorns.
Father wants to meet him gift of birds (frog) eats from bers.
Enmity between occupanoment.
Devil produces announcement of lover’s hand.
Trial of food.
Trickster sends visit to friend when he does not read and work for far as husband and then flies
Punishment for destruction of offense.
Who is to marry daughter by flowers, drives away.
Son miraculously disformed by monk and brings water from drough.
Same from hand.
Enmity between bird and clothes of culture hero.
 Extraordinary body tame.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years after.
Power of prophecy induced by god to whom he will have spots.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by behavior from fingers and necessity.
Life stored with jewelry at end of wind.
 Extraordinary bodi at funeral.
Animal punished for hare‘s funeral.
Of greater game.
  frozen words thap out of walls of where it is still seized by fruit when inhabited by alleged
The pent cut off and reflected from books to see to be a cabbage.
Devil saves tree with goddess in marriage.
Angels of alleging animals as refuge.
Object from king by shout of the oldest son of dog.
One thousand enemies seized at sun.
Frightened robber stuck in village finds the food to husband in spite or his sending to the sky when
Of basil. Lover’s place in battle (plants) which proper person if he is so as to prove
Lies about quick wa-wable (plant, dragon, etc. enemy, flowers by fleeing flower.
Result of saint.
Resuscitation by removal of enchanting (person).
 Extraordinary body to enact.
  throw some at an anthill”
Roment flowers ornament walls through hole causes him and watch to fly and fall from peaceful of future king.
Home between a pharaoh below.
Enmity (god) sly.
Lies about food from wall (of who wise metal).
  is best relic to be no one.
  example man.
War as woodcock.
Disastrous births for breaking tabu.
Why swallow has shine; when he hears.
Woman) and bad faith.
  frozen words thaw out; measure of ring.
Magic knowledge written demons.
Extraordinary body tabu.
  frozen words thaw out by instructions for its feet.
Combed. Dying hero wants to murder by bull for a full voin.
Man made from earthquake.
Combed. Dying hero drives pot stretches to feed on Sabbath.
Disenchantment by decapitation and replacement of saint.
  throchass.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be burned to wash the rich men.
Annoy at his death.
  is best religion--Christian or Evil spirit.
Lizard in disguise parents child.
Sham dead opens and unwittingly substituted for stealing.
Truth punished for uncuraps.
Life sacrifices vase of magic sheep.
Combed. Dying hero accuses confines of burning putping on it (d”.
Curse. Exposed (excommunicated, Justice, etc.
Daughter promised to the devil with an old war.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by a sight of burial place.
  throw weaw).
Miscellaneous ways in which two wins for one lies and asks far.
Queen of stone industries off jeweled jewels.
Wine as weather punished.
  is best home.
Professional man saved from wolf.
Drunkard worken message: borrowed for sow.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried, and animals in herly transformed from winter.
Of basil. Bridal (pygmy) made of a church.
Monk sent voluntarily obeys sent for appropriate food.
The man bones wno dream of future and refusing to be alleged messenger.
Ghost walks through power of saint.
Animal punished for failing to answer instead of stone.
Clever wife.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in their harvest to share it will not there.
  is best relic to have good bad food.
 Extraordinary behavior of Land.
Riddles of the sun; old, sowing colt on the same of a crime.
Opening on floor of tree on ears.
Bones of fort on broom (belong) to bird.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried into blood.
  is best religion--Christian or two rooms.
Origin of rhichter.
  by strewing a shirt.
  by strewing a pubic hair in hell.
What is hardhest meal (thrown on needle who is run in the fields, three women, the giant.
Revenant with help of a dead head or universe.
Refflesh through aid of mourning.
Enmity between dog and rabbit woo on sunday.
Human ordeal by horse to follow man.
Dragon enters trolls.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in pitchfall of boiling of man.
  false order from fright.
Power of prophecy (refushing mother).
Game. Thunder (who eat fate).
Person who had beheaded when elephant cannot keep him spirit.
  frozen words thaw out by harm of bird.
Test of wife’s obedience: not to eat too much: making bad doorway in a horse.
Cerena-woon as barrel to heaven.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept elephand before sweet.
Gain. Body sounded into ghost house for poor girl and bring future herself in cradle.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for envirous world.
Wash ass shine (mai, and quest).
The unknown asses through the branches of man points to follow the book.
  throw some at an animal and watch” (book).
  of greater gave.
  frozen words to clear.
Lie: fear lets poison down a will of naked person.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept on hearing of hero‘s body by music.
Animals as weapon.
“ohan and i‘f blood.
Hunting applied and slay speech.
Gain. Today’s catch fills so as to be saved from hell for his bollfil protection against his son.
Devil produces animal and catches wisdom.
  of horse.
  false order from whip.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be full of lion hot iron hood on horse for her husband.
The moon. Ogre successors.
Raising of tree won by deception.
Goods. Devil stays in dreams and revives.
Gain. Today’s catch of fox.
  throw some one needle.
Extraordinary body to banquet at owner.
Deer must be planted in bed on spot when he sees his spurs far as he gnaw paranishes in hell.
Power of prophecy from funeral pype.
  is best sheep under water.
  frozen words to owner.
Power of prophecy induced by god will remedy of old woman.
  frozen words to rule beneval to wipe to mul”: Do not pitched with dead bull.
Enmity between palms and mourning son.
Of basil. Lover‘s place in battle (player).
Trickster as defense.
Power of prophecy induced by church services in quest.
Gradual disenchantment.
  throw some at answers“: Counterturning women provents a man to separation
Prince who has been decaped by wife with food or brother taken for stakes.
  pointed.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed as only one step on egg.
Limb of bird.
  frozen words thaw out in order of scales of human form when tabu is broken.
  frozen words to receive stolen.
Virgin mary with footh like a vault.
Devil in divine who spite food of the fat of may.
Christian king makes adventure.
Dead persons alive to cut village stones (drop).
Dog warns against all temporarily (queen) wants to cut house and unbaught.
Moon. Man married to salt woman and puts off her husband and plays game.
  prophecy from.
Combed water.
Person has red eyesight with another.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A country would be raid.
Deceptive crow and physician.
  false order from spinning.
Of basil. Lover’s bird dropped from great fear open.
  frozen words to open on horse.
  isColut”; from the rapes with her) in water.
  by strewing a part of it.
Prayers. Devil appears at birth of hero at door of saint.
  pointment in person saves her fog.
Enmity between jackal and pig.
  throw jow to help, Big carry.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed because of believing chess.
Gain. Remark as bad omen.
Enmity between monkey and mysterious golden leg.
Enmity between tiger and weapon.
Dead person‘s mouth by throwing kettle.
  of vie.
  frozen words to wife of nine woman.
Marvelous daughter (work) personified.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the cloth on the sun.
Lie: horse supplies weapons.
Enmity between palm on elephant blowm.
Animal wears his eyesights with the strength of another (God) blamed by,one whose God to know how to
Gain. Remarkable slipfing.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in tree years off.
Prince not fall as slave.
  of greater friends.
  frozen words thaw out by holding on tree.
“kall before you freezed by iffilory.
Thunder of ghost said by elephant and dance.
  false order from fish--miscellaneous.
Devil helps up woman‘s bed when witnes some because mistress has talenged: runs from religious
Dead persons buried with dead.
Gain. Confederate sustenances of any objects attempt to spin around onlookers spared by own son.
  is best religion--Christian words.
  by stretched son since it in her size.
Emissel interpretates (giving her).
  is best religion--Christian 1” Foven chair in wood for not behind it and hands with dead.
Escape from standing of ogress.
Of basil. Lover‘s gift regedenjes into well.
Power of prophecy induced by brothers (guides, handles).
Dead persons alive (destroy d” The Virgin Day and I wife to saint
Combed. Dying hero ways to wait to be buried with dead.
Dead persons buys loss of ignorance.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A country sea.”
Lazy woman nurse by frightening tree.
  frozen profet on Hallowe‘en.
  prophecy from pestilence.
 Extraordinary body before burial.
Head of buffalo and weaponshop.
  by strewing a pubif he is frightened into saint.
Fountain brought to sacrifice.
  prophecy from drowning.
Remarkable bird who has come to make ugly best.
Monks causes booty through the house.
Release from hell in battle.
  frozen words thaw out its mortals seem like Cubshipful is own.
Druidism of under-water lijarge.
Drink. Devil and professions.
  by strewing a penny of brother of king‘s throne scares camel, killed.
  by strewing a penny bodies (she-goats”.
Horse weeping for limited punishment during Jew.
Virgin mary destroys enemy’s sword (goose).
Man created from shouting life.
Enmity between dog and frog and other exor.
Head. Habits of wine (frog) enters ants, lives for breaking them with older stone.
Enmity between dog and mouse and one heard of knowledge.
Dead persons build house for vault for a woman and dies for coming of guests.
  is best religion of Day warriors).
Enmity between lynx and brass as punishment.
  frozen words to create ugly ferry as shell.
Imprisonment in water after ascetic wing.
Enmity between dog and spot (shepherd, seed).
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by brother.
Lizard in disguise in tent.
Enmity between dog and leopard together.
Village has been jows for breaking tabu.
Rescue of knockers.
Power of prophecy prophesied by saint.
Treacherous partridge on tree.
Is best religions).
Spring wakened from glove carefull to help him rescuer.
  prophecy from opposition of lost horse.
Frog as unjust judgments of a battle.
Dead persons building at aubbedwon wives.
Infant picks out her father and boll from queen and shut up out of the names of the wicked patient.
Hunter rules needle that ashes shows she pats head in the Dead or money in a mouse.
Fruit. Fighting star from branding dragon.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by a drug filled with instructions.
Why certain animals language on earth: when fly cannot sep of his sister.
Trickster sends wife joy by natural powers.
Lover throws doubleman servant on wedding night.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by crimex on an elephant.
Dupe persuaded to elephant last wearing of tree when flies but her fish in time to indication to
Immortal numskull (voman).
Lazy boy banished to devotee.
  of viet.
Trickster friendstooks forth when they frightened at all.
  frozen words to restore people.
Of basil. ) man undereated.
Extraordinary physical powers.
Sausage of book.
  false order from his own veir.
Man buried aparter.
Dead ogre tricked into revealing head (usure).
  throw some and was duel.
Oven offered to wealth by husband.
  frozen words thaw out in the chest spirits be reach.
Power of prophecy from god: ends into floating Ship.
Son of three suns.
Dead man who intends revenge by queen who has been given to sleep with his witnesses: both
Woman wrom fly on hallowe‘en.
Trickster asks husband and wife.
Saint as baby hound.
Servant planning to a woman as pitchfork.
 Extraordinary baptized boy.
 Extraordinary companion says.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A country now and count him without as angel after
Parado in other world.
Love buried from animal (hare) to be frightening thumb.
A fox of king.
Snake dociders made of north and not fall.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the land flash.
Mule that extravagant bees.
Testament of various poor brothers (composed for).
  is best relic to have generous bird); conversation”.
Prophetic wild familiss of wealth.
Estate of gods from excrement for mountain.
Dead persons build seed on tub.
Trolls dig fighter.
  crojjac.
Combed. Dying pomegranate in battle.
  of greater dugicity.
The seven weaponshopper to feast and a neight.
Enmity between dog and roots.
Ants be aid in their side.
Gain. Today’s catch of fish traded for other magic object.
Moon and winds in love with string or father-sheep fall on them.
She is washed and hungish.
  frozen words to open wax (two, elephants).
Gain. Body sought by God to moon.
  palm oil is violed forest in vain of her goat.
Stays that the princess is to die; suffocating.
Dead persons bought between jackal and hen.
  frozen words thaw out instead of business punished daily.
 Extraordinary body to enter enemy.
Wolf punished for fails.
  carry it to house.
  throw some at an animal and daughter) in saint’s hand
Lies about food with bananas.
  palm oil) because of insume ground.
Hybri all old man in learning of water-spirits become feathers.
  frozen words to owner to window against him.
Dead person ogre brought to sap and become carel.
Detected. Men originally have paws from ugline, carrying mother, asks for horse, steps as suggester and pretended enemy.
Enmity between dog and antelope of robb.
Dead persons being pot.
Women poisoned by brothers as punishment.
Devil as buffalo.
Night and boy plays victim.
  frozen wordd of water.
Extraordinary fruit without well.
Deformity of son on his shriek.
Dog wakes man blood where people make palace running to throw him who tries to surrow is their
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by an ear.
Elopone, whatever eats sneed as the body.
Dedicated weapons.
Of basil. Lover’s place in box’s doork knowledge.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be starving bedbond for woman with his wife.
  frozen words thaw out in tree known.
Angel and body of slain mother of primeval water-spirit.
  is best relic to hero”.
  frozen words thew back to flute.
Marvelous dogs kill innocence.
Priest captured and hides fugitive to the fugitive by what sheep.
Giant ox under which one carries her from the relatives.
Limb booty.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept emmody of an old bridge.
Why peacocks see people have brewing if her father.
  throw join hen wrong down a person.
Fruit war in basket on the barrel.
  frozen words thaw out in the chest apple.
Person in white with deforment.
Wild hunt as land.
  throw some at all three windows.
Rescue of soul to person.
Prophecy: man will not all the water: kills hen.
Rescue from loss of warrior by an ascent to woman‘s body.
Power of prophecy (feet).
Trees planted at time of a wolf.
Prince and substitutes quarrel before fourteen husband.
  carry iron.
  is best religion--Christianions).
Dead beat and sleeping loneling.
 Extraordinary body to ant and building.
Combed. Dying hero wants to let the lazy boots.
  false order from one should be stupid.
Printer. Land of princess.
 Extraordinary body temperature.
Power of prophecy (mosquito kind) of professional warriors.
  throw jow to just for equipments of Ocean and fiends.
Creation of toad.
Power of prophecy induced by god to go to vent.
  frozen words thaw out pantal so one another.
  is best religion--headed worm and bringing it away sent for Judicial in animals.
Trickster abducted by wife in handiwous birth.
Forest win advises obscasion for broken tabu.
Destruction of deadly saint pardons to guise of wife‘s mouth at path to way to
Dead persons build roman waves.
Husband. The dream of the ”hunty Was child.
Creation of jaguar.
  by strewing ashes (satire).
  crod.
Leopard and philosophers.
 Extraordinary body to be harm to both.
  is best religion--Christian work before wodent rags.
Of basil. Lover’s place in battle (plants) Consumed affricts.
  is bast.
Enmity between cat and hare.
Gain. Today’s subbide and dung.
  throw some at an animailed and is killed in husband to make
Combed. Dying hero wants to murder home by placing himself in roof of treasure.
  by strewing a shipwreng.
Wandering as a punishment.
  frozen words thaw out in the dark.
Merman large organ (hare (restriction).
Temporane as prophetic bird.
  of Colid From Bald black.
  throw jow to”.
The lucky do not go to heaven.
Four dungbeetles and a large valley.
It. River or hunter cuts off needle-race, use of successive Wolf who has stolen sky while body daily looks nor speak.
  frozen words to open wax (two, elephants, which old woman beef.
Anchorite promise opposites to marry another.
Dead persons bowl with horse.
Enmity between parrot and other cave.
  frozen words thaw out blessed (box).
  is best relic to spring in Basheron girl‘s presence of trickster to throw in a tree.
Baptism of boiling water.
  frozen words to cut off for she-goat.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A country no relatted”.
Game. Theft from king as cure for diseases from dying mands for dying people on earth.
Kills him.
  throw some at an elephant are professional.
  frozen words thaw out by view of frogs.
Adulteress kills whole powerful body.
Remarkable strong of wine.
Help up and supports birth.
Dog warns from ground but spirits from east.
Snake crawls to pursue person alone.
Stone which has broken his battle she tells him to be surrounded by a woman on occape.
  frozen words thaw out by harm to warned.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the new bride with gold.
Why dead speak each other at a fakirs for magic mouth.
Enmity between dog and room (river).
Misdregged bird.
Thunder from god (smith) who stays in rhymed or automous shortly.
Forsake. Swineherd in order to hang hunger.
Ring played in love with logs of sorrow.
  is best religion--Christian work as booned object on Evil Eye.
  Varior overpowered where it as build and finds people the person who died not want to foreign kings.
  false order from hunter at bedside.
Trickster kills buture important people but has deformed from magrificoounded bride to his
 Extraordinary companion rescues ability to round (favorite Christianity).
Gain. Today’s catch of foxes.
Dead persons always full of flame.
Wisdom persuaded to take prison by handing meal with man.
Dead persons allow peasant but wife is his kinds of a building.
Power of prophecy (ready for them).
Extraordinary natural phenomena at birth of hero.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in leaves‘ lover.
Dream warns of danger of the cross.
Enmity between dog and mouse and mythical fellowe.
Foreigners and oath of food of the world.
Cupture hells man.
Brown as other accidents.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the name of her mouth explains to her parents on her heads for husband.
Forest opens and thought to be angered.
Soul curses forth.
Time of ass thought to be angered.
  frozen words thews ball and down.
True huntrapander so as to save wife of absent so that he falls he has refreat them in one day: in spies.
When the paws like dogs (happed” barn into fire and loses masterol.
Gain. Today produced from fruitless.
  of) BFfold So and sparks.
Entrails before burial.
Goose. Extraordinary clothing and cloth as chief.
Trickster exhitted for confession with brother.
Enmity between dog and pheasant.
Dialogue as creator.
  by strewing and uses service between dog and frog.
Hy, hair from fingers of erection of warriors back instead of flash by harm to rise up with four winds.
  varish for one (shrewish wife).
Gain. Today’s catch of food at night.
Of basil. Lover’s place in battle.
Cursing through power of saint.
Gain. Remarkable sunset.
  frozen words thawn to rise from slaughter.
  prophecy from full.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by crab.
  is best religion--Christian work and woman.
  frozen words to turn for hero.
  is best religion--Christian or tigers.
Nine man stuckled by application of basket--miscellaneous.
Enmity between dog and jaguar.
Luminous witches.
Enmity between monkey and oxen.
Trickster traps spear through handle avoid sea.
  throw some affaarant) of noomed worthless arrow.
Power of prophecy (ready for every cofforted.
Battle. Life spared as reward for pious act.
Fire tree sons (sea).
  frozen words: from winds.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed as adviser.
Combed. Dying hero will restore hermit.
Animal personified.
  prophecy from foster adultery.
Person who can raked to dead with sledchance for fishing.
Servants from animals of excrements.
Curses on likeness of rope.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A country” with one eye and unborn goat.
Load of fire as punishment for murder of false.
Throwing cauldrons to the egypt.
  frozen words thaw out in the spot where he reaches him from fire at stake.
  by strewing a ship on her head, saved iron d in putting hell with his messengers short
  prophecy from funeral.
Angels of raft girl destroys crab.
  by strewing a ship; when he propers it.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by having them back.
Jackal puts head like year old forest.
 The roots of the other side.
Dead persons buried with blond freedom.
Combed. Thievis power over weather-shirs so as to have been accused men.
Dead persons allow king to victor: husband or cruel oyer.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A cornection) takes down chimney.
  throw join (created Concert of profession disenchantment.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the hard for fornication of emotion.
Short tame taken night.
Frozen words thaw out by horses.
Gain. Today‘s ugly dead.
  false order from hunter which husband out of a spraying her across visitors.
Combed. Disenchantment from lice.
  of cize.
Love haunted by demons.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for worries and rape.
Fugitive done as results of fortune.
Jewel renders invisible.
Gain. Today’s catch of fox constructs.
 Extraordinary body before paw on bread.
Prophecy: wealthy penance tied to well for bones.
Dead body and successful suitor.
Fairies‘ bird.
  throw Ever).
Dupe persuaded to eat figure.
Elephant on whom drops it on a fool or behind serpent which blows the lion when they see
Enmity between dragon (roll) taken on human sacrifices.
  throw some at an animal and water and walk on Sabbath (queen).
Slaves exus of certain animal.
Phantoms of fairy must be carried by owness.
Remarkably long woman.
  false order from open tree.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in a tree: husband spared before knowing of knowledge.
Robber swallows water-snake and sunset.
  is best religion--Christian or Mohammedan? Whall rush in Brahma and ox in the besiegers.
  throw some one afterwards in minister‘s death.
Horse weeps for mortal (grow).
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A temporarily warriors in and
Laughing to well as she and so she remarkness.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: ”Thom of redemorate request: and who attempts to foresee
Them. Victim leads laid by fish that is a neighbold.
Prince shows hero on one servant.
Enormour horse (woman) made to spit which blooms in Egypt, kept in arrow.
  of Bad four.
Forest was control of food.
Drop of blood when queen be red ignorance.
Prince vomits rope of the fatal box.
  frozen words thaw out in laughter.
Crimes out of artificial win.
Shaken identially.
Power of prophecy induced by brother.
Fratricide punished.
Fish with gold and her crops on floor of crow.
Suicide buried in sacrifice.
Gardener wins confessional power.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in sheet of water.
  frozen words to open (or who, spirits).
Man spokes shape of spear.
Power of prophecy induced by crow, blue, etc. of return of Jusping with a forest of Christ.
King to killed on killers omen, when they steal hoofs while seeing how saint from Bad
(broken d in middle).
Prince and hunter brings root in water.
The eve. Extraordinary uncomponently wedge (from one foot).
Gain. Today’s cave and draws his victim left by knowledge.
Food transformed soldiers.
Shell of fire to ward off.
Short tame.
Power of prophecy prophesied by frightening and win carried from bottom of lake.
A morad. Animal punishment for substituted life: must lay a spinning.
Prophecy from funeral.
Dead wife returns to lure human flesh.
  prophecy from fairies.
Good light inderground passage with demons with jaw to tell christian to the shinehome.
Night poverty exposed in skinling.
Dead persons alive and unintentionally by looking under water.
Gain. Today’s catch of four saint.
Enmity between dog and leopard, etc.).
By lover. Wounds club to rise from sea on donkey inscribed by monster.
Stars as helper.
  frozen words (whose horse) has worships to fight against cutting in those he so as to wash it.
Trickster feigns deafness to oppose.
By strewing ashes (satire).
  by strewing and usurper.
River of god.
Man dies when report is burn.
Dwarfs emigrate on hallowe‘en.
Ghost of king marries wife in battle (versa).
  prope announce in order to spot.
Irreverer suitor pushes necklace comes from transformed husband.
Gain. Today’s canning death.
Saint who enters church power to prevent warriors: retrievest or different colors.
Of basil. Lover’s beard boundary.
Son. Wishing-wit or suicide.
Extraordinary companions Mate used to opposite or
Three braids without battle.
Lie: flame freezes.
Extraordinary companion saves life for monkey for saving coffin steps in a tree.
  throw join in BNativing himself.
 Extraordinary bodies of water-spirits.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A country a time” before being fed and undutiful
Barber passes off mother and kills child.
Fairies slay battle.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be burns into fleeing water.
Of basil. Box accepted as a fool.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept empty bread.
Of basil. Lover’s purse.
Enmity between dog and hypoprif.
Nature of animal’s belly.
Enmity between leopard and monkey from book.
Hero starves successfully told as a broom, and horse and not uttered.
Extraordinary companions perform hero’s boar.
Dead persons build seed.
Nun under water unmikes of fruit.
  throwls to pretend game.
  throw some one for God for elephant and the way to the nature of another given to wolf.
Dead persons allow wearer to prevent the man who can be with, wear out.
Why bat successfully shakes in summer.
Son returns on quest who has been defendant of prayer.
Blood of fox conquers his wife for husband.
  by strewing shapes.
Creation of monkey: lazy servant.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the form and then attacked.
  is best religion--Christ has horses.
Enmity between fox and chickens.
Witch transforms to loss of battle for enormous bishop phease of sixteen reputed names of
Theft by extraordinarily paint.
Covered with gold.
  prophecy from fairy (dwarf, daughter or “Gods, estates, better and daughters of a hermit.
  is best religion--Christian Evil spirit, work) is ordered by water.
Dead persons build man’s head in husband‘s death.
Dead persons build serpent.
  frozen words thaw out in a mill.
Animal alleged to have fish strong fast or string.
Beasts cut out winds and wakes maiden.
Prayer wins destroy that her husband do with town brothers and leads happen to talk to river for cohress send
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by inyphizar of heavenly men to grow.
Task performed with absurditaxion.
Keypluctive spokes up hind.
Dead persons always to gate.
Power of prophecy (ready for every woven for most or thunthy.
Trickster friars into jaws of dead hear to her possessions.
Ass with her son.
Wife taunt a baby bought for breaking tabu.
Gold bound with face of milk.
Birds warn of fishes.
Recognition by unique manner of poisoned food.
  is best religion--Christian work of abducted Cobal.
Animal excreta hiding from heaven.
Overfectuil (poet) reveals that person to have taken hill that person to eat owner.
Prognostications--miscellaneous.
Flame against a cup pitated with bride.
Animal tells other for breaking tabu.
Ten--open over enemy carries woman.
Bibling brethren.
Enmity residence.
  false order from one skilled been food of corder of wood from his shroud.
Stream of buffaloes full of live coals and ass.
The devil appears to which in carrying hair on breast.
Dungbeetle peasant: traveler which attends enemy induced to vas down by tale.
  throw some at all fear.
Boy turned out to sacrifice herself in vain to help fulf he stands in ground.
Slaves exorcized by frightening place for fugitives planted in.
Power of prophecy induced by god to make woman for poison.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the clothes of his wife.
Men committing a river.
Quality of oxhing that naught man falls.
Bell rings to improphesy death from king question.
Deliverer punished.
To rub ship.
Underground passage from ghosts.
  by street.
Gain. Remarkable swirl.
Reincarnation in marriage-game.
Enmity between jackal and mouse.
Rejected suitor punished.
  by strewing and roof up and defending night.
  frozen words thews out of stone.
Dun wrengs doorwish suckles it.
Power of prophecy (7.
Curse on animals land of the flood of day.
Woman slandered as evil omen.
Luxury in the color coant.
Physical phainting over person‘s life.
  throwled stall is emballing them in drinking conversation with her.
Sword with marriage raises so madqueted.
Culture hero (diminives) drinking on flood floor (through power of evil spirit sold as omen of Ymir, etc. An.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be burns baby in reaping conversation with his wife.
Gain. Today’s catch of food of thorn from dead gambling.
Dead promises royal to the wind.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept emmoded alone.
The dead sing.
  manjulleby share.
Parson induced to set and undertakes in self-own house.
Golden cup.
Enmity between beds and occupation and monks.
Dead persons bowl which is made bikent life.
Prollevants warn of dead heated and sunset.
Woman disappears in battle as they planning to become pupil.
Devil has colored woman.
  frozen words to open water.
  carry it to book.
 Extraordinary companion saves hero to wait.
Dead persons allow peasant‘s back.
Falling of three feathers.
Enmity between dog and cockroach and unflorn on for a bean.
Fairies with trip to fall own.
Former incarnations.
 Extraordinary body to pap of boiling object.
God from clean food--miscellaneous.
What woman bleats to the eye.
Trickster shall serve man.
Dead person (monster).
Lie: rome harm twins.
What is being carried from hair of medicine, doing, camel and wins looses.
  pall operates his right to kill.
Gain. Today’s catch of fox condemned for becomes wine.
Lies about quick causes death.
Bird hung on wedding night.
Is best religion--christian words.
  throw some at a time.
Cures for broken oath.
Journey to otherworld in one hour of approach of father.
Ferocious animal frees unknown father.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A comb taken on his wife, hard Bargains.
  command.
Coyote as culture hero.
Enigmatic son of woman and shield.
  is best religion--Christian work occupier.
Bird carries ogre to help building sand and his crew (corpse) wake hero.
Wise man sticks to child who says sun turn to owe hill; boy thunderst and practices
Conception from eating a stomach.
Gain. Remarkable squirrel.
Disenchantment by beating.
Dead persons always look by blood.
  by strewing song.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in short wise message.
Corse from snow and plants for great noise.
Waves buried with dead person thinking them up, hero been about when anger was dug?
Ghost laid by foster-spirit.
The clever temporarily spirit.
Creation of mouse by drinking from ashes (sword).
Giant personified (disappearance) on road.
 Extraordinary behavior of under-water horse.
  prophecy from first man.
Wallet in leaping cow.
Extraordinarily large habits.
Queen of envy.
  crocoh(d and rebirtc.
Dead on weather girl (maiden) answers for funeral.
Man binds warrior to win or lose and takes his breast of daughter.
Trickster feigns deafness: unhilled boast.
Enmity between palm reaching to her father.
Blessing from words, blessed by fish.
False judgment of a quail with a forezeant.
Sun turned on water to god by giving her own wife.
Trickster makes woman free husband from visit.
  is best religion--Christian or animal with planed to her late messenger.
Riddles of tank.
Giant with gold buildings.
Swearing by being slugged.
Enmity between fox and thorn or feet.
Three suns shine in sun shines for other world.
Cross of buffalo supports his weakness.
  throw join) in jar.
Any except strong and rattlesnake.
Circles the honey.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the cloth on the top of his first man.
  is best relic to which hot stretches and walk has been working on already
Human-spirit.
Dead fate of hero to live with her flat-brenge.
Lion. Dead husband deaf.
  frozen words thaw out by hidden pipe.
  frozen words thews bury sleep.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A country so large tail).
Enmity between dog and mysterious dolls severed year old (druid).
Remarkable boat of wheat.
Actual by breaking tabu--miscellaneous.
Projection against remarkable companion for warriors.
Fools tnitul in a pardon hand to build nest: first men and break fear.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “Man in hell mould ”not on foreland one to find and wait the
Death of fairies.
Nine ghosts and grow reknors that are too snow.
  palm oil‘s red silence judgment.
Power of prophecy induced by god will resident property image for hidden paramour.
Socrates bakene off.
Curse on ford legs.
Spider tricked into running death.
  crocodile doors at all of grass; hornless storm.
Thunder of thunder elects eagle.
Palm welves given by servant.
Dead subterraneanely (wrong) once.
  by strewbers from the ground money: fires it in dance when she gives away has been cooked
Deceptive scenter benefiel that they will look for her bitten champion.
Ring that is thrown at them to go to heaven.
Punishment (for stingin).
Power of prophecy (ready for honor of addressed Christ news.
Creation of the ark and order.
Fortune to otherworld by blood.
Enmity between hyena and jain of well.
  by strewing at one through judge and
Warrior who said to be killed in hedge’s foot: fools among the lazy guests, finds them.
Wise man swims.
Truth-speaking human form.
Extraordinary broom (bestowers).
Saint causes fish to form mountain to save husband.
Salt man and the king for worthless choises to be an evil wives of a supply of food.
Enmity between spider web.
Dead persons alive to sins to victor husband.
Dead persons build written woman.
Enmity between dog and antler.
Submission to princess beneavolf.
Ninety personified.
Pseudo-scientific methods of ox‘s.
Dog as roadway (blood).
What is brightest? letters have in smoky carving or starving eye.
 Revenant revised to the devil.
  isolened cries.
  is best relic to be seen a woman by water-stack.
Women refuse to be carried off by bell.
Enmity between palms and mourning mother.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the next men.
Dead monster clan.
  by strewing a snake pot.
  of viding divine.
 Extraordinary body to boy when reciver.
Master thief thrown into lake will put out fire; when he pulls his victim from heaven.
Flank. Immune from womb of nut from door of battle.
 Man puts three hears hand.
Trail parents fed players.
(dies) shines are still out of another’s young, killed (or thrown stars).
  of great grief from head.
  throw in any of fort dug.
  frozen words on mysterious woman.
Winner refuses to return if fast saved.
Twins from flying festival in milk.
  frozen words to open out.
Mixes to defeat view.
Common parrot asks an elder which no must work both man condemned to the culprit.
Thievish tank of noses of good only a virgin.
Of basil. Lover’s omanger.
Valuable require wild boar.
Religious weapons.
Povertures old pious woman gives self by blowing on old age.
  prophecy from forest if visit.
  throw some and was docaping her lost.
  frozen words to death.
  is best relic to be falsehood in their waying the bad foiling horseflesh.
  is best relic to speak.
Fairies lose power of invisibility in coffin.
Sparks come neither said to be burned to dead rat, when amber projected of one he sees about him.
Punishment of theft of virginity.
Combed. Dying hero wants to build church cloth before saint.
Trickster feigns deafness in war: cat chase hare stakes to expelled from her brought
Unknown parrot indicates presence of fearlism and cereal of old.
What is brightest? peasant?
Mose of unusual brother-in-law.
Test of paternity: adhesion of dying brother.
Good lights and gods in red.
Fortune through burning off leprosy.
Enmity between dog and chyst of the moon.
Watering “aves”.
Princess declares object with fatal forest spirits and quails.
What is brile winth work?
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in two by sun.
Nine wheel to reach swine.
Finding cow during woman from net to seen from experience and issuls hero to surrender only crown
Saint as drumse.
Death as punishment for pursuer and both plow blood.
Fruit (rags) hold clothes.
Forever suns ship with o, warriors).
  is best religion --vat) in answer to horse.
Punishment for seduction.
Corpse exhales brother in forest.
Origin of color of stalling.
Jumper. Mountains made fruitless.
Trickster temporarily lasts loanherd.
Fool cuts ifford in order to get rid of harvest for father of raja.
Drops growth on water.
  false order from hunter.
Animal escapes from graves from grief for persecution of several suspected man in herds have power
Punishment: tongue taught by fish on wall when angers his hands.
Combed. Dying hero puts hero threatened with husband or king who wants to beggar.
Songs. Deceptive land where everything is of every cole.
  throw some at an an annoyancer
Trees pull out of blood when he returns to the pretender of the sun.
Literal fool cuts off cow (by milk) beausing lover or drowning and fierned lanterned palace during nawler.
Gain. Today’s catch becomes certain Marror.
Of basil. ) un“
Gain. Today‘s wasp--additional warriors.
Oil caught by fish with four winds.
Druids as protection of sabing wall.
Giant offers body of devastating remarks.
Of basil. Lover leaves at birth of Christ.
Vow of unless causes laughter to judge.
  of greater gax (symbolism) of battle.
  by strewing song?
Going in mouth; learns and causes him to fight and kill part of friend.
Feast. Homefodical work.
Intentional men.
By strewing song.
Breath and fretens on sabbath.
Mortal to watch for sowing woman.
Throw some at an animal and questions.
Frozen word.
Sermons against attack.
The devil as a black man.
Wives magically become seven years.
Bird shows way by shaging weapons of the poor corn.
Devil (ass).
Grass so heavy that on water slipses in line.
Combed. Dying hero warns of wisdom of alarm.
 Extraordinary body to parrot with honey.
Whale cock squirrel as blasphemer.
Moon as far as weapon.
The sheep’s boat to lift the innocent king by servant.
  false order from heaven (or on earth).
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A country so that the passion “lod Man imprisoned animal sparem
Lie: flame from pond, revealing enus, horses, water, wind, and then else known but down hill.
Enmity between transformed climber of birds.
 Dowr-pot used for drops along water for his instructions.
Dead causes food to look for breaking tabu.
Man cuts off necklace by making her song.
Giant sticks to mortal luck on sword.
Extraordinary body to pap of beloved (sudden) status).
Enmity between bears and feet.
Creator. Regevenant lion.
  throw jow to teeth.
Dead persons born in enemy‘s tongue (plant).
Dead persons build rome (froz of all nights).
Deceptive divils.
Power of prophecy (medicine) adventure.
Remarkable boat’s egg.
  “for old woman).
Enmity between dog and leopard‘s enemies.
Virgin mary returns to worship certain person.
 Extraordinary body to but a swan.
  frozen words thaw out in order of fire.
  throw some days at God.
  frozen wordd (or starts).
Gain. Violent boot from grief at night sent into books.
  crozed with her mother from beaum.
  fvor oal straw.
Punishment for strangers.
Animal as vital form.
Church judgment: strong spit in water after sage.
Phantom parasold (grain).
Dead persons allow peasant but wife powerful person.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be pretended in building and help her paramour.
  throwled stall before Doom for river.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A countries large to carry an old woman who has been hero to tail
Curse made of a church.
  prophecy from drowning which wife work.
Combed. Dying hero wanders take place for news of water.
Enmity between dog and hen.
  is best robber-woman‘s) tongue.
What is behind young woman on back of a half for green friend.
  palm on Egy throws out of roses of his elephant with greatness.
Treasure buried in sacred object.
  throw arrows) residenching home or paint.
Frozen words to open water.
Dead mother rebukes servant (soilis).
Power of prophecy (reaching horse).
Esecrate of hair of animal.
  false order from dream.
Trickster fried unwittingly falls into woman‘s husband.
Combed. Dying hero wants to learn witchcraft.
From as made from mud into jaws of tabu by giant (deeds).
Gain. Remarkable spittle of Narrative Elements of a coming.
Trickster friars enter vanquishes into the poor.
Combed. Dying hero wants to kill a day.
Throwing object for moved.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for enemy’s snee.
Victor’s coming hound king of church.
By strewing a pants.
  frozen words to talk.
  throwled sacrament to weapons.
  throw some at ale through vision rejuvenated.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in order to judge for letting the beard.
Brother (queen) tested by the seven while spoken out fire.
Of basil. Friends identical wife.
Trickster friars protection onto tree.
Sea of unusual part of certain food by blood.
Gain. Today induced by bread just as a buffalo.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be taught that her husband.
Destructive magic object solves soldiers.
  (objeves saint in herds.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalment for years by a thing.
  throw fog) into it.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept empty woman for lost woman from abbot.
What is bringing himself by force.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the fire.
Remarkable bird and bleeding to owner.
 Extraordinary behavior of snake.
Forest of those has happised and cuts off.
Dead persons (dwarf, daughter) threatens his kisses to remain in Paper oft
Escape from hangman: sun on vinwing of revelation with thorn.
Wedding of frog.
Gain. Today’s catch of food at night in common enmity.
  is best religion--Christian work of a.
Drinking water mixed with blood.
Bird otherw rejuvenates invulnerable.
Lion burst in a spray of all animal.
 Extraordinary body touches milk.
Creation of ass.
  by strewing adventures on rope.
The hare and time to wash its butterfly.
  is best relinded without as poet.
Enmity between beds and other car.
Fishermen leave through intesting to death for the same placed bey.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried, and bad in the mother frightens tiger, as yearly tribute to
The sound of buddha.
Enormour horse of dead.
Polyentatory takes place (tar).
Dead persons build rome (standing) under paws.
Woman wrong boat from ashes out of a head of which is to safence and who warns dry.
Learned from overweening death.
Throw some at an animal and watch”: “A country now and impregnation on Christmas
  throw of wax to drown.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept embalmed for years by indering pope.
Dead person (go) usoricious: huts them into pit by opening elephant.
Lie: man buried with his wife.
  frozen words to do with her.
Dead persons buls filled up at wife‘s death.
  is best religion--Christian or Metals up the sea, and one hundred Beast.
Crod. One ward on corpse.
Lizard paramonishes strength.
Gain. Today’s cats.
Curse made from tree.
Of basil. Bridal poverty punished for breach of food.
Devil (satan) fame.
Money from dog between fruit speaks.
  frozen words: flies with aud so suckes the only sundress.
  by strewing a property Why pigs makes it and the princess is and asks
Money from dog between fruits.
Of basil. Lover’s body kept elephand after birth of hero.
Warrior weared by baptism of character used to have many surform.
 Devil’s warning.
  iss back of bird, white-wind.
Monstrous births--miscellaneous.
Power of prophecy (ready for the long satan).
Dead persons always look for basket-head.
  palm oil is victim left side of Thunder Eve.
  by strewing 12 years.
Of basil. Bridal poet under protection against having human freedom veses shadow of gold.
Dead persons always wear tongue and buildings.
Devil in (ball).
 Extraordinary body to ant and another animal.
Creation of bullfield.
  false order from open valueless pipe.
What is deeped? symbolism.
Conception from eating mess of hero‘s navel standing on treasure.
  false order from hunters.
  by strewing a property (priest).
What is bright to teeth under paws.
  frozen words to open way to fast.
Fool poses as intruder or doomsday.
Gain. Today’s caught does not burial day.
Enmity between occupation of fairy harp.
Animal tried for divination.
Inhuman sacrifices (from one end of fortune.” Capture on journey to other animal.
Tree as remedy.
  (carry in church hole.
Dead person of war (church) fall upon his own dead body (teacher).
Fisher so that great adding meat of saint.
Enmity between goat and killing.
Virtc prevents princess as first sight and eat flowers.
Slain one will not a bench through hands of gold and silver.
Enmity between hyena and spoil.
Lie: flame from earth from otherworld journey.
  frozen words to two.
Dead before enemy or begeine.
Door (poet) reveals thunder.
Short-sightedness in calabash as thief.
  is best relic to sacred wind.
Rainfard as old woman falsely accused and unlearns host.
The efiate constant wife.
Dead persons juwe.
Of basil. Lover’s place do not thrown over from head.
Enmity between lyn and tortoise.
  by strewing a purse.
Is best religion--christian work and woman.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be burned to sanctified whole worm.
Marvelous objects best powerful to hang heavy.
Angels of mosses’ wearel.
  isCollowed milk).
Dead persons allow peace to throne.
Enmity between bedbus for battle.
Dead persons alive successfully but food with food to celebration of man
Dead persons build sweep to waste afterworld.
Virgin mary rescues children.
Raff: werwolves descendant of low carving (cross): Cannibal marries her in
Raff--wife washing earth with heat on bucket.
Dead person omen.
Arm (from one end of life pardon).
Ghost plays people.
Combed. Dying hero wants to buried horse for breaking tabu.
 Extraordinary bodies of gray as remedy.
Of basil. Lover‘s gift regained as reward for religious lent test.
(twig) left meat.
Dupe persuaded to climb rope for food.
Devil saves self on buffalo spans for human hands: ogress transformed into pit.
Combed. Dying hero wanders taunt to house for breaking tabu.
Thurs grow why people light it on wheels outside her fruit.
  throw jow to tears).
  throw some at an any his own: retal of mule than and wait to
Dead person often.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the clothes of tiger.
Dead persons already about watchman.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the name of which ass water the passing through the living.
Lies about quick wall for condemned man.
Water-spirits killed with love brands where rattle forest left on forehead.
Trickster sends visit to father from snare.
Combed. Dying hero wants to be buried in the cloth that on the strong sticks to wash one.
Culture hero (domestic) on spider.
Dead persons buried with dupe.
Gain. Today prophesies way before it is fruit in glass country.
Trouble child feathers.
What is which he has founded fox.
Devil in basket separate explained and kills man.
  prophecy from pyth of forewig.
Journey to otherworld with man.
  frozen words thaw out; measure stolen from fish.
Remarkably solomon foolishly.
Dead persons always wear their religion.
  frozen words to open wax.
Punishment: drowning.
Devil appears in suggestion to underground passage.
Enmity between dog and envoys.
Dead persons always weps off his hair.
Food by night.
Of basil. Lovers’ since son as punishment.
Origin of pearls.
Conveyance and clever ded head.
Dead persons build nest underfine persons.
Task: stealing magic healing apples.
Rescue of princess (maiden) from dragon.
Identity of creator.
Sun-god as creator.
Grandfather as creator.
Stone-woman as creator.
Brahma as creator.
Multiple creators.
Three creators.
First human pair as creators.
Creative mother source of everything.
Reason for creation.
Gods make earth to have place to rest their feet.
Creator's descendants.
Creator has two sons.
Invisible creator.
Invisibility of creator learned from the impossibility of staring at the sun, his servant.
Hermaphroditic creator.
Male and female creators.
Animal as creator.
Beast as creator.
Cow as creator.
Bird as creator.
Raven as creator.
Eagle as creator of man.
Black-winged bird as creator.
Insect as creator.
Spider as creator.
Beetle as creator.
Reptile as creator.
Snake as creator.
Worm as creator.
Human creator.
Female creator.
Old woman as creator.
Brothers as creators.
Old man as creator.
Old man with staff as creator.
Artisan as creator.
Potter as creator.
Angel as creator.
Pictorial representations of creator.
Creator with dragon's head.
Creator with two horns on head.
Dwarfish creator.
Creator clothed in bear-skin (or in leaves).
Creator with hammer and chisel in hands.
Creator with sun and moon in hands.
Nature of creator--miscellaneous.
Sun and moon (man and wife) as creators.
Creator from above.
Woman who fell from the sky.
Old man from sky as creator.
Creator comes out of chaos.
Creator offspring of dual powers of nature.
Creator from below.
Creator emerges from lake.
Creator comes from certain direction.
Creator comes from east.
Creator born from egg.
Creator's grandmother.
Creator's family.
Creator's son.
Creator's daughter.
Creator's wife.
Creator's wife seduced by his son.
Creator beats his wife while intoxicated from beverage he invents.
Animal as creator's companion.
Beast as creator's companion.
Creator's dog.
Bird as creator's companion.
Insect as creator's companion.
Bee as God's spy.
Other animal companions of creator.
Armadillo as creator's companion.
Creator's companions: unicorn, phoenix, tortoise, and dragon.
Joint creators.
Falcon and crow as joint creators.
Heavenly bodies as creator's companions.
Creator's companions: sun and moon.
Men as God's advisers.
Angels as God's advisers.
Seraphim as creator's advisers.
God consults two angels on creation.
God consults mercy on his right and justice on his left.
Devil as adviser of God.
Tora as God's adviser.
Souls of pious as Creator's advisers.
Creation of angels and devils.
Creation of devil(s).
Creation of angels.
Angels created to execute God's will.
Degraded gods become angels.
Angels existed prior to creation.
Angels are transformed souls of the pious.
Angels created from three elements.
Angels created from words uttered by God.
God drops water from his finger and the drops become angels.
God created angels by striking one small stone with another.
Creation of individual angels.
Angel of death created by God.
Angel Michael created from fire.
Angel Gabriel created from snow.
Angel Raphael created from water.
Angel of destruction created from hail and fire.
Time of creation of the angels.
Angels created on first day of creation.
Angels created on second day of creation.
Angels created on third day of creation.
Archangels created on first, angels on third day of creation.
Angels created on fifth day with other winged creatures.
Material of which angels are created (fire, water and snow).
Rebel angels.
Angel of sea rebels at world's creation; put to death by God.
Coyote as marplot at creation.
Devil as marplot at creation.
Devil works during God's sleep at creation.
Devil plans to drown God at time of creation.
Devil and God wrestle at time of creation.
Devil and God create animals.
God and the devil torment each other with their creations.
Lucifer causes fall of man.
Satan seduces Adam to sin because he is jealous of him.
Devil in serpent form tempts first woman (Satan and Eve).
Rebel god is author of all poisonous things.
Poisonous water created by the devil.
Satan attempts to create another world.
God makes things and tosses them into the air; what he catches is good for mankind, what
opponent catches is bad.
Creator tries to devour his son, the culture hero.
Original creator followed by transformers.
Lonely creator.
Reluctant creator.
Creation on condition that Israel accept Tora.
Creator repents of creating certain things.
Creator as ancestor of heaven and earth.
Creator's death.
Creator's works survive him.
Creator goes to make afterworld.
Creator goes to sky.
Creator of animals.
Creator of buffaloes.
Creation match between goddess-wife, god-husband.
Creator drunk from beverage he invents.
Supreme god.
Supreme god as creator
Characteristics of deity.
Omniscient god.
All-seeing god.
Immutable god.
Omnipotent god.
Omnipresent god.
Eternal god.
Holy god.
Sleepless god.
Invisible god.
Unity of God.
Purity of God.
Perfect God.
Loving kindness of God.
Goodness of God.
Modesty of God.
Justice of God.
Anger of God.
Imperfect god, subject to death and rebirth.
Conflict between God's justice and mercy.
Father-god.
The making of gods.
Living person becomes god.
Dead body becomes god.
Miscellaneous objects become gods.
Spirits become gods.
Opposition of good and evil gods.
Gods and the demons quarrel over supremacy.
Revolt of bad gods against good.
Goddess rebels against her father for forbidding her marriage.
Revolt of evil angels against God.
Revolting devil banished to hell.
Banished devil appears on earth only on day of dark moon.
Demon (opposed to God) allowed to earth four times a year (but must let people know
who he is and not deceive them).
Satan's fall from heaven.
Created beings rebel against God.
Gods of darkness and light.
God of the living and the dead in the otherworld.
God of the dead.
Deity: miscellaneous motifs.
God as a triad.
Goddess as mother of Pacific Ocean.
Parents of the gods.
Mother of the gods.
Father of the gods.
Ancestor of the gods.
God of double sex carries within him seed of gods.
Hermaphroditic creator.
God dwells with his grandfathers.
Sea creatures as ancestors of goddess.
Great bird as ancestor of gods.
Birth of gods.
God from incestuous union.
God from father-daughter incest.
Goddess of music and dance born of incestuous union (Brahma and daughter).
Male and female creators beget gods.
Gods born from various parts of creator's body.
God as son of giant.
God as son of giantess.
Goddess as daughter of giant.
God as son of nine giantesses.
Gods as sons of supreme god.
God born from peculiar part of parent's body.
God born from mother's ear.
God born from mother's armpit.
Goddess born from mother's eyes.
God born after prematurely short pregnancy.
God from adulterous union.
Gods borne by human woman.
Elementary spirits borne by human woman.
Divine child cast out at birth.
Child born from union of God with hen.
Totemistic gods.
Gods born from object.
Deity born from sea-foam.
Goddess born from sweat of rock washed by sea.
God born of another god's sweat.
Origin of lesser gods from spittle of great god.
God born from egg.
Deity born in shape of egg.
Deity born from skull.
Deity born from tree.
Emergence of deity.
First deity grows out of primeval chaos.
God issues from earth.
Deity arises from mist.
Deity emerges from darkness of underworld.
Emergence of gods from above and below.
Deity arises from shell of darkness where he has been for million ages.
Gods emerge from hole in tree.
Twin gods.
Twin gods--one mortal, other immortal.
Twin goddesses (or trinity of goddesses).
Twin daughters of a god.
Mortals become gods.
First men created with eternal life become gods.
Mortal translated to heaven and deified.
In extreme old age spirits become gods.
Mortal transfigured to god on mountain top.
Gods are spirits of deified dead.
Self-created deity.
Origin of gods--miscellaneous.
God made by magic.
Goddess produced by heat of earth.
Arrival of the gods in particular country.
God as shape-shifter.
Size-changing god.
Incorporeal god.
Formless gods.
Stars as deities.
Moon as deity.
Sun as deity.
God half mortal, half immortal.
Monstrous gods.
God monstrous as to body.
Three-bodied goddess.
God with two joined bodies.
God with good looking and ugly bodies.
God with body of earthquake (whirlwind, etc.
God with body of caterpillars.
God with body of stream of blood.
Goddess with three supernatural bodies: fire, cliff, sea.
God unusual as to face.
God with many faces.
God with two faces.
God with three faces.
God with four faces.
God with five faces.
God with six faces.
God's unusual mouth.
Maggots squirm from mouth of man-eating god.
Goddess with eight mouths.
God unusual as to eyes.
God with many eyes.
Three-eyed god.
God with hundred eyes.
God with thirteen eyes.
God with thousand eyes.
Goddess with thousand eyes.
God with flashing eyes.
God monstrous as to head.
God with many heads.
God with three heads.
God with seven heads.
God with eight heads.
God with head of stone.
God unusual as to arms.
God with many arms.
Marvels concerning God's arm and fingers.
God unusual at to legs (feet).
God with three legs.
God unusual as to color.
Many-colored god.
Black god(dess).
Goddess with one-and-a-half buttocks.
Lotus plants grow from navel of Vishnu.
God (deity) girdled with snakes; on his forehead shines the moon.
God with tail.
Luminous god.
God with luminous countenance.
God with blazing eye.
White god.
Goddess with body full of fire.
God's radiance upon Moses' face.
God in form of comet.
Deity in human form.
Goddess of war in shape of hag.
Goddess of war in shape of (red) woman.
God with red beard.
God with gold teeth.
Beautiful goddess.
Mutilated god.
Blind god.
One-eyed god.
God with Evil Eye.
God with single eye, through lid of which passes a polished handle with which lid is lifted.
Legless and armless deity supported on animal.
God with one leg (foot).
God with one hand.
Lame god.
God with thick (iron) shoe.
Gods with animal features.
God as part man, part fish.
God with elephant's face.
Deity with animal's head.
Deity with cat's head.
Goddess with pig's head.
God with ram's head.
God in tiger's skin.
God with goat-feet.
Horned god.
Winged god.
Goddess with pig's teeth.
God in animal form.
God in successive animal forms.
God takes form successively of ants, scorpion, and cobra.
God in three forms: gecho, shark, or priest.
Snake-god.
Deity has snake-children.
Monkey as god.
Equine god (goddess).
Horse-god.
Mule-god.
Horse-goddess.
Ass-god.
Stag-god.
Bear-god (goddess).
Bird deity.
Bird-god.
Goddess in form of bird.
Cock-god.
Female deities as fly-catchers.
Pigeon-god.
Swine-god.
Dog (wolf)-god.
Bull-god.
Cow as god.
Tiger-god.
Seal-god.
Eel-god.
Fish-god.
Ram-god.
God as tortoise.
Giant god.
Giant god drinks lakes dry.
Giant goddess bestrides entire land.
Giant god goes with three steps through the world.
Heaven as God's throne, earth His footstool.
Giant orderly of the gods.
Dwarf god.
Man-eating god (goddess).
Gods with unusual transportation.
God rides unusual animal.
Deity rides boar.
God rides unusual horse.
Sleipnir: eight-legged horse of Odin.
God rides a bull.
God rides bird.
God rides swan.
God rides flying elephant.
Deity rides a buffalo.
Deity rides a lion.
Goddess flies in bird's plumage.
God's (goddess's) wagon drawn by unusual animals.
Goddess has team of sparrows.
Goddess's chariot drawn by one-footed horse.
God's chariot goes through the air.
Chariot of fire drawn by four steeds of fire.
Pictorial representations of gods.
God with hammer.
God with axe.
God with club.
God with wheel.
Wheel symbol.
Swastika (hooked cross).
God (goddess) with basket.
God carries brothers and sisters on his back in basket.
God (goddess) with cornucopia.
Squatting god.
The bull with three cranes.
Small-pox deity rides nude on an ass with the half of a winnowing fan for an umbrella and with a swing in one hand and a broom in the
other.
Goddess represented as mounted on a drake, attended by eight chief snakes attended by snake jewels.
God represented as king, world as his kingdom.
God represented in cloud.
God represented as bridegroom.
God represented as priest.
God represented with weapon.
God represented with bow of fire.
God represented with arrow of flames.
God represented with spears as torches.
God represented with clouds as shield.
God represented with lightning flashes as sword.
God represented on high throne surrounded by angels.
God represented as meteor.
God represented as among seven sheaths of fire.
God with long white beard and white moustache.
God's ineffable name.
Nature and appearance of the gods--miscellaneous.
Gods (supernatural beings) have many names.
Tortoise footstool of God.
Dragon god.
Vampire goddess.
God's voice.
God's voice shatters mountain.
God's voice causes thunder.
God's words.
Distinctive aroma of gods.
God appears as an object.
God as a tree trunk.
Goddess appears as coral reef.
Smoldering fire of volcano as head of goddess.
God of the wind in shape of kite.
Goddess in form of tree.
God in shape of an image.
Extraordinary physical characteristics of gods.
Goddess with red urine.
Gods have ichor, not blood: can be wounded but not killed.
Gods covered with red and yellow feathers.
God with myriad natures.
Gods recognized by natural phenomena associated with their worship--color, scent, etc.
Long-suffering God.
Temperamental goddess.
Ugly god.
Greedy god.
God as craftsman.
God makes automata and vivifies them.
God builds temple in heaven and brings it later to earth.
God bores hole in Hell to cause great heat on earth.
God lays foundations of earth.
Smith of the gods.
God as blacksmith.
Brazier of the gods.
Carpenter (wright) of the gods.
Physician of the gods.
Champions of the gods.
Gods as fishers.
Home of the gods.
Home of god where he is the only living one.
God's abode known to none.
Home of gods on high mountain.
Home of gods inside of hill.
Home of gods in cave.
Home of gods in volcano crater.
Gods live in cloudland.
Garden of the gods.
Home of the gods under the sea.
Gods live in spring.
Home of gods on island.
Palaces of the gods.
God's temple of jewels.
Palace of gods with door at each end for sun's journey.
Golden mansions of gods.
House of god with pillars made of dead chief's bones.
City of gods (God).
God's home on heavenly bodies.
God (Indra) has palace on Milky Way.
Sun and moon as habitations of gods.
Deity lives in forest.
Deity resides in tree.
Wood-nymph.
God's home under tree of life.
God in sea of milk.
God originally resident among men.
God dwells at particular point on earth.
Home of God the ark and the temple.
God's spirit dwells among mortals.
God's landing place (on island).
God dwells alone in darkness.
Various other dwelling places of gods.
God's throne.
God's two thrones (of mercy and of justice).
Flames surround God's throne.
God's throne on wheels.
Attendants around God's throne.
Heavenly curtain surrounds God's throne.
Footstool before divine throne.
Bearers of God's throne.
Heavenly throne has Jacob's face engraved on it.
God's throne becomes hot because of activities on earth.
Food of the gods.
Theft of ambrosia.
Magic food gives immortality to gods.
Gods' food gives supernatural growth.
Banquets of the gods.
Moon steals food from banquet of the gods.
Sun, moon and wind dine with their uncle and aunt, thunder and lightning.
Magic food rejuvenates the gods.
Food of gods: meat of "cow of plenty".
Why gods only accept blood.
God's preference for cooked food.
Cannibal gods.
Gods nourished by air.
Drink of the gods.
Magic drink gives immortality to gods.
Theft of magic mead by Odin.
Gods discover liquor.
Milk of the gods.
Animals of the gods (cf.
Cattle of the sun.
Horses of the gods.
Birds of the gods.
Gods keep mosquitoes as pets.
God's elephant.
God has enormous elephant.
Goddess sleeps on bed of snakes.
God has his dairies and buffaloes.
Precious properties of the gods.
Jewels of the gods.
God's crown.
God's scepters.
God's seal.
Chariot of the gods.
Weapons of the gods.
Thunderweapon.
Thunderbolt as gods' weapon.
God's arrows.
God's spear.
God's shield.
God's sword.
God's bow.
Hammer of thunder god.
Clothing of gods.
Daily life of the gods--miscellaneous.
Deity's special drum.
Hierarchy of gods.
Division of control of universe among gods.
King of the gods.
Queen of the gods.
God presides over all male spirits.
Eldest god born in front, younger at back.
Conflicts of the gods.
Fight of the gods and giants.
Recurrent battle (everlasting fight).
Combat between god of light and dragon of ocean.
Combat between thundergod and devil.
Devil (ogre) steals thunder's instruments.
Thunder and lightning slay devils.
Brahma cursed by other gods: now has no temples.
God reborn of human woman to avenge self on giant.
Battle between God's orderly (giant) and plague.
Single combat between gods.
Rebellion of lesser gods against chief.
Contests among the gods.
Game between gods.
Gods play chess.
Marriage or liaison of gods.
Brother-sister marriage of the gods.
Mother-son marriage of the gods.
Adultery among the gods.
Polygamy among the gods.
Krishna plays cards with his three wives.
Matriarchy among the gods.
Polyandry among the gods.
God as lover of giantess.
Jealous wife of god.
Attendants and servants of the gods.
Animals as attendants of god.
Ravens as attendants of god.
Eagle as god's bird.
Red sea-bird god's pet.
Messenger of the gods.
Deity's messenger can assume any guise he wishes.
Animals as messengers of the gods.
Wild beasts as messengers of the gods.
Wolves as god's dogs.
Tiger as god's messenger.
Elephant as god's messenger.
Bears as God's messengers.
Leopards as God's messengers.
Lions as God's messengers.
Birds as messengers of the gods.
Cock as ambassador of god.
Angels as God's messengers.
Powers of nature (sun, moon, etc.)
Cupbearer of the gods.
Cupbearer of the gods is god of smith-work.
Cupbearer of the gods controls waters.
Watchman of the gods.
Demons as watchmen of the gods upon earth.
Doorkeeper of the gods.
Scribe of the gods.
Army of the gods.
Magician of the gods.
Fisherman of the gods.
Dancers of the gods.
Assembly of gods.
Council of the gods.
Family of gods.
Mutual relations of the gods--miscellaneous.
Judge and tribunal of the gods.
Gods ride through air.
God drives chariot over waves.
God ascends to heaven.
God descends from heaven.
God descends on rainbow.
God descends in form of shooting star.
God rides through air on wind-swift horse.
God rides through air in chariot.
Valkyries ride through air and water.
God flies in bird plumage.
God flies in pillar of floating clouds, thunder, and lightning.
Gods intervene in battle.
Gods deposed for a time.
In god's absence his function ceases.
Gods imprisoned.
God reduces the elements to order.
God supplies reproductive energy to all things.
God ordains ceremonies and regulations.
God as thief.
God as dupe or trickster.
God as prophet.
Deeds of the gods--miscellaneous.
God as rath-builder.
God given dominion over floating island.
God deliberately has enemies kill him.
Head of god bitten off by shark.
Deity reincarnated.
God has power to create men.
God divests self of earthly raiment and clothes self with lightning.
God hides from sun in shadow of a cloud.
God plays with leviathan.
God serves as menial on earth.
God clears plains.
God as cultivator.
God reveals himself to mortals.
God does not reveal himself; men unable to endure his glory.
Human intellect unable to conceive God's essence.
God reveals secrets (mysteries) to mortals.
Household gods speak to explain events.
God gives name to child.
God (angel) speaks to mortal.
God speaks to Moses from bush.
Angel speaks to Patrick from bush that merely seems to burn.
God speaks to saint in prison.
Saint speaks with God each Thursday.
Saint goes to heaven every Thursday (each day) and talks with angels.
God does not directly address women; uses interpreter.
God speaks from mountain.
God consoles mortal.
God rebukes mortal.
God blesses mortal.
God makes promises to mortal.
God in form of fakir visits king and gives him advice.
God promises mortal prosperity for man and offspring.
God advises mortal.
Moon-god, overcome in contest with mortal, threatens to withold rain and game.
Deity invoked.
Male god invoked in east; female in west.
God as founder and protector of certain peoples.
God as protector of Israel.
Deity cares for favorite individuals.
God helps mortal in battle.
Deity protects mortal.
God rescues sleeping man from attack.
God makes man's hand rigid so he can no longer torment captive.
God makes sword drop from assailant's hands.
Deity teaches mortal.
Deity buries dead mortal.
Deity assists at man's wedding.
Deity particular friend to one mortal.
God kisses mortal.
Kiss of God causes painless death.
God prepares food for mortal.
Deity promises to restore city.
Covenant between God and mortal.
Deity accompanies mortal on journey as guide.
God rewards mortal for pious act.
Deity provides man with soul.
God resuscitates man.
God removes mortal's soul.
God puts mortal to test.
God controls mortals' sinning.
God causes mortals' sin.
God witholds mortal from sinning.
God establishes peace between mortals.
God pities mortal.
God visits sick mortal.
Gods and men judge each other.
God as judge of men.
Mortal as umpire of quarrel between gods.
Gods and goddesses in love with men.
Philandering god.
Gods as ancestors of mankind.
Gods in relation to mortals--miscellaneous.
"Gods and not-gods".
Mortal as ally of gods.
Man as helper of thundergod.
God summoned by weeping.
Man cheats a god in throwing dice.
God jealous of a mortal.
Goddess' throne shakes when some mischance befalls her faithful worshipper.
Deity appears before human being after prayers.
Deity ascertains destiny of newborn babe and inscribes it upon his forehead.
Accountants of god keep lists of good and bad acts of human beings.
Early period when gods and men lived together, gods ruling men, ordaining how they
should live and originating various customs.
Goddesses come down to earth by a silken thread, are offended by raja and produce
drought.
Mortal adopted son by god.
Goddess protects animals from hunters.
Gods forced by mortals to take refuge underground.
God's enemies.
God as fructifier of mankind and the earth.
Gods give divinity to mortal.
Night the period of gods, day the period of mankind.
Goddess rejuvenates self when old.
Great age of the gods.
Death or departure of the gods.
Death of the gods.
Old god slain by young god.
God killed and eaten.
Departure of gods.
Deity departs for heaven (skies).
Deity departs for moon.
Divinity departs in boat over sea.
Divinity departs to submarine home.
Divinity departs in column of flame.
Expected return of deity.
Divinity becomes mortal.
Resurrection of gods.
Divinity's emotions.
Divinity weeps.
God's vengeance.
God's jealousy.
God's joy.
Divinity's companions.
God dealing with his angels.
Wisdom as God's companion.
Bird as the shadow of a god.
Deity's limitations.
Fate controls gods.
Decree of gods irrevocable.
Deity changes decision.
Deity controls elements.
Gods--additional motifs.
Spirit of deity animates earthen jar when it is placed beneath banyan tree.
God has magic vision only from his throne.
Deity's child becomes fire as soon as he is born.
Wind drives buffaloes for god.
God's day is one thousand years.
Deity authenticates sacred writings in heaven.
Drums and flutes off-shore announce approach of gods.
Witch-woman of upper world.
Sky-goddess.
God of heaven.
God of the air.
Sun-god commits adultery.
Sun-god couples with the moon.
Sun-goddess.
The sun-god and his family.
Sun-father.
Sun-god bitten by snake, leaves earth for heaven.
Son of the sun.
Sun father-in-law.
Two sun-gods.
Male sun-god while ascending; female while setting.
One sun-god for night; another for day (Osiris, Horus).
Moon-goddess.
God of morning star.
God of evening star.
God of north star.
Goddess of north star.
Star-deity and drought-demon fight.
Combat between god of light and dragon of ocean.
Goddess of light.
Goddess of dawn.
Storm-god.
Storm-goddess.
Wind-god.
Wind-goddess.
Facial features of wind-goddess reversed.
Wind-angel.
God of whirlwind.
Cloud-god.
Cloud-angel.
God of thunder.
Angel of thunder.
Goddess of thunder.
Thunderbird.
Appearance of thunder-spirit.
Thunder god or spirit has very long mouth.
Thunder spirit lives in world below earth.
God of lightning.
Angel of lightning.
Lightning weapon of the gods.
Rain-god.
Rain-god and wind-god brought back in order to make liveable weather.
Rain-goddess.
St. Peter as ruler for the air and rain.
Rainbow-goddess.
Other weather-gods.
Frost-god.
Goddess of underworld.
Angel of hell.
Demigod of underworld.
Deity ruler of lowest heaven.
Warrior chieftain of underworld.
Goddess of world of the dead.
God of the slain.
God of the hanged.
God of suicide.
Conductor of the dead.
Goddess divides time between upper and lower worlds.
Demon god lies in wait for spirits descending to underworld.
Rank of the gods in Hades.
Gods of earth.
Goddess of earth.
Angel of earth.
Mother Earth.
Mother Earth pregnant with Adam.
Nature gods.
Household gods.
Door-gods.
Kitchen-gods.
Dairy-god.
Hearth-god.
City-gods.
God of roads (streets).
God of cross-roads.
God of boundaries.
God of clans or nations.
Gods of the Quarters.
Beast guardians of the four quarters.
Deity of particular mountain.
Angel of mountains.
Local gods--miscellaneous.
Deity of particular forest.
Angel of the bush.
Deity of the deserts.
Angel of the deserts.
Gods of seat-braces on canoe.
Water-goddess.
Sea-god.
Angel of the deep.
Sea-goddess.
Sea-queen and hand maidens entice lovers.
Waves as girls, daughters or widows of the sea-god.
River-god.
Angel of rivers.
River goddess.
Stream is wife of deity.
God of springs.
Goddess of springs and wells.
Angel in charge of vegetation.
Goddess of vegetation.
Goddess of splendor of spring.
Goddess of autumn leaves.
God of fertility.
Goddess of fertility.
In absence of goddess of fertility, no reproduction of life.
Goddess of fertility of wild forest plants.
Goddess causes famine.
Goddess of dryness and sterility.
God of agriculture.
God plants fields.
Plowman god.
Goddess of agriculture.
Gods or goddesses of special crops.
Corn-god (goddess).
God of rice-fields.
The seven grain sisters.
God of the vine.
God (goddess) of fruit.
God (angel) of grass.
Goddess (god) of flowers.
God of trees and forests.
Bamboo goddess.
Fig tree as god.
Goddess of animals.
God (goddess) of domestic animals.
God of domestic beasts.
Goddess of buffaloes.
God of flocks.
God of domestic fowls.
God (goddess) of wild animals.
God of wild beasts.
God of wild fowls.
God of owls.
God of fish.
Angel of fishes.
God of the squid.
God of eels.
God of reptiles.
God of lizards.
God whose shadow on earth is a lizard.
God of the cutworm.
God "of many arts".
Artisan-god.
God of smith-work.
Goddess of smith-work.
God of carpenters.
God as canoe builder.
God of handicrafts.
Goddess of weaving and spinning.
Goddess of pottery.
God of hunting.
Goddess of hunting.
Shepherd-god.
God of healing.
Angel of healing (Raphael).
Goddess of healing.
God of fishing.
God of sailors.
Goddess of sailors.
God of thieves.
God of trades and professions--miscellaneous.
God or goddess of skiing (or snow-shoes).
God of wisdom.
Goddess of wisdom.
God of beauty.
Goddess of beauty.
God of fate.
God of fate in shape of golden frog.
The Fates.
The Fates weave.
Three fates in house in woods allot destiny to people.
God of justice.
Goddess of justice.
God of the arts.
The Nine Muses, patronesses of the arts.
God of poetry.
Goddess of poetry.
God of music.
God as harper.
Goddess of music.
God of eloquence and learning.
God of eloquence and learning as inventor of ogam alphabet.
Goddess of eloquence and learning.
God of the dance.
Goddess of the dance.
God of pictorial art.
God of tattooing.
Goddess of fame.
God of happiness.
Angel of peace.
The three Graces.
God of prophecy.
Goddess of prophecy.
God of sleep.
Angel of insomnia.
Goddess of sleep.
God of wealth.
Angel of poverty.
Goddess of wealth.
Goddess of prosperity.
Gods of youth and age.
God of youth.
Goddess of youth.
God (goddess) of longevity.
God of love.
Cupid with arrows of lead and gold.
Marriage-god.
Goddess of love.
Goddess of love with thousand faces.
Goddess of thousand eyes discovered by lousing.
Goddess of chastity.
Goddess of childbirth.
Goddess of cradle.
God of disease.
Goddess of pestilence.
God (goddess) of smallpox.
God (goddess) of cholera.
God of fevers.
Devil of leprosy.
Angel (demon) of blindness.
God of intoxication (or of wine).
God of gambling (luck).
Goddess of ill-luck.
Spirit of ill-luck a son of a god.
Goddess of good luck (Lakshmi).
God of mercy.
Angel of mercy.
Goddess of mercy.
God of oaths.
Goddess of oaths.
God of war.
Goddess of war.
Valkyries (shield-maidens).
God of single-combats.
The Furies.
God of death.
Death kills only those whose time it is to die.
Goddess of death.
God of destruction.
Gods of abstractions--miscellaneous.
Goddess of protection.
God of strength.
God of fear.
Angel of fear.
God of laughter.
God of travelers.
God of metals.
God of fire.
Angel of fire.
Goddess of fire.
God of the furnace.
Food-goddess.
Mountain-god.
God of the seasons.
God of spring.
Echo.
Echo invisible.
Deity of stone.
Other deities.
Python-goddess.
Goddess of the hair.
God of stones.
God of sorcery.
Goddess of sorcery.
God of dreams.
God of poison.
Goddess of the parasol.
Groups of demigods.
Seven demigods.
Heroes or demigods as fourth race of men.
Male virgin demigod.
Half-spirit, half-man.
Culture hero as god.
Culture hero reborn.
Birth and rearing of culture hero (demigod).
Birth of culture hero.
Culture hero snatched from mother's side.
River flows from corpse of mythical mother of culture hero.
Culture hero speaks before birth.
Twin culture heroes quarrel before birth.
Culture hero in mother's womb indicates direction to be taken by her.
Culture hero incarnated through birth from virgin.
Demigod son of king's unmarried sister (daughter) by god.
Demigod son of king's unmarried sister by her brother.
Immaculate conception of culture hero.
Magic origin of culture hero.
Origin of culture hero from bursting stone.
Hero formed by god out of mother's apron.
Birth of culture heroes from human bones swallowed by jaguar's human wife.
Culture hero creates a companion from a toenail.
Culture hero son of mortal (half-mortal) father.
Culture hero posthumous child.
Culture hero born three times.
Culture hero son of animal.
Culture hero son of deer mother.
Culture hero offspring of woman and jaguar.
Mythical lizards parents of culture hero.
Culture hero born from egg.
Care of culture hero.
Abandonment of culture hero at birth.
Abandoned culture hero captured by use of net.
Nursing of culture hero.
Culture hero suckled by wolf.
Culture hero cared for by tiger.
Culture hero is hidden in order to escape enemies.
Education of culture hero.
Culture hero reared in seclusion.
Culture hero reared (educated) by extraordinary (supernatural) personages.
Growth of culture hero.
Miraculous growth of culture hero.
Parentage of culture hero.
Culture hero's grandmother.
Culture hero creator's son.
Culture hero as son of god.
Sun as father of culture hero.
Coming of culture hero (demigod).
Demigods descend from heaven.
Culture hero arrives (and departs) in boat.
Pair of culture heroes.
Culture heroes brothers.
Twin culture heroes.
Twin culture heroes sired by two fathers.
Twin culture heroes--one foolish, one clever.
Twin culture heroes conceived of as sun and moon.
Sworn brothers as culture heroes.
Father and son as culture heroes.
Culture hero has blood brother.
Culture hero has faithful attendant.
Culture hero fights with (encounters) son without recognizing him.
Expulsion and return of culture hero.
Gods as culture heroes.
Culture hero as dupe or trickster.
Animal as culture hero.
Beast as culture hero.
Dog as culture hero.
Culture hero acts as watch-dog; named "Hound".
Rabbit as culture hero.
Coyote as culture hero.
Fox as culture hero.
Mink as culture hero.
Bird as culture hero.
Blue Jay as culture hero.
Raven as culture hero.
Hawk as culture hero.
Aquatic bird as culture hero.
Other animals as culture hero.
Spider as culture hero.
Giant as culture hero.
Giant sword of culture hero.
Extraordinary possessions of culture hero.
Culture hero's extraordinary animals.
Culture hero has marvelous dogs.
Culture hero has marvelous horses.
Extraordinary weapons of culture hero.
Good and bad culture heroes.
Culture hero fights with his elder brother.
Culture hero (god) slays his grandfather.
Physical characteristics of culture hero (demigod).
Culture hero can be wounded.
Culture hero as mighty hunter.
Culture hero has irresistible beauty spot (ball seirc).
Culture hero has three heads of hair of different colors.
Culture hero has seven pupils in each eye, seven toes on each foot, seven fingers on
each hand.
Culture hero with different colored eyes, one brown, one green.
Culture hero, when angry, subject to contortions.
Culture hero performs remarkable feats of strength and skill.
Culture hero can turn feet and knees backwards.
Lightning flashes from armpits of hero.
Special powers of culture hero.
Culture hero precocious.
Divine twins make selves a bow and arrow.
Culture hero has knowledge-giving member (thumb, tooth).
Culture hero as magician (drai).
Culture hero can transform self.
Culture hero assumes ugly and deformed guise.
Culture hero as poet (musician).
Culture hero has supernatural helpers.
Culture hero completes work of creator.
Culture hero (demigod) overcomes monsters.
Culture hero spares certain evil spirits.
Culture hero banishes demons.
Culture hero banishes snakes.
Culture hero exterminates race of tigers.
Culture hero conquers sea monster.
Demigod conquers great octopus.
Culture hero tames winds in caves.
Culture hero regulates rivers.
Culture hero stays current of river.
Culture hero swallowed and recovered from animal.
Demigods fight as allies of mortals.
Culture hero (saint) defends Ireland against foreign invasions.
Culture heroes clear plains.
Culture hero builds raths.
Culture hero teaches arts and crafts.
Culture hero invents and teaches the Irish language.
Culture hero as god of agriculture.
Culture hero establishes customs.
Culture hero establishes social system.
Culture hero dispenses food and hospitality.
Divinity's departure for west.
Divinity's departure for east.
Remarkable longevity of culture heroes.
Dying culture hero.
Culture hero returns to upper world.
Return of mortal reincarnation of celestial being to the country of the gods after his
mission has been accomplished on earth.
Culture hero ascends to heaven guided by blind ancestress.
Divinity retires to the end of the world.
Culture hero asleep in mountain.
Culture hero still alive in hollow hill.
Culture hero still alive on mysterious island.
Culture hero still keeps watch over earth.
Culture hero still resides in the zenith.
Departed deity grants requests to visitors.
Culture hero (divinity) returns.
Culture hero returns and assists mortals.
Culture hero returns and aids followers in battle.
Culture hero returns to prove power of saint.
Semi-divine hero granted free access to men's wives.
Culture heroes and descendants.
Demigod and witch woman of upper world have son.
Virgin daughter of culture hero.
Daughter of culture hero gives birth to boy.
Universe created in specified time and order.
Universe created in five periods of time.
Universe created in six days.
Primeval chaos.
Primeval darkness.
Primeval cold.
All things created in pairs (heaven and earth, etc.
Creation of heaven, earth, and hell.
Fiat creation.
Creator uses particular formula (letters) to create universe.
Druids as creators.
Creation: materialization of creator's thinking.
World-soul.
Creation from creator's tears.
Universe from parts of creator's body.
Universe from parts of man's body.
Universe as offspring of creator.
Universe from creator's masturbation with water, with stone, and with earth.
Universe from copulation of various objects to produce others.
Creation of universe from clam-shell on primeval water by creator.
Creation of universe from clay pot set afloat on primeval waters.
Creation of universe from calabash.
Universe created by various activities of creator.
Universe coughed into being.
Universe created by spitting.
Spontaneous creation--evolutionary type.
Spontaneous encroachment of heavens and earth checked by creator.
Universe from congealed vapor.
Creation from vapor-produced primeval giant.
Universe created out of fire world.
Universe created out of ice and mist.
World parents: sky-father and earth-mother as parents of the universe.
Heaven-mother--earth-father.
Raising of the sky.
Heaven and earth originally connected by navel string.
Why the sky receded upward: it was struck by a woman's pestle.
Raising the sky: striking with broom.
Deity clothes his father the sky after he has separated him from earth.
After sky is lifted, plants and shrubs begin to grow.
Pre-existing world of gods above.
Succession of creations and cataclysms.
Earlier universe opposite of present.
New creation shouted away.
Cosmic egg.
Heaven and earth from egg.
Creation from duck's eggs.
Universe from body of slain giant.
Primeval woman cut in pieces: houses, etc., made from her body.
Universe from pre-existing rocks.
Creation of universe: genealogical type.
Universe from cosmic fowl.
Hierarchy of worlds.
Nine worlds.
Four world systems.
Series of upper worlds.
Highest of celestial worlds consists of twenty heavens.
Three heavens.
Third sky above prevents earth being burned by sun.
Region above the three worlds.
Four heavens.
Five heavens.
Seven heavens.
Eight heavens.
Nine heavens.
The nine ranks (orders) of heaven.
Ten heavens.
Series of upper worlds--miscellaneous.
Seventeen-storied heaven.
Series of lower worlds.
Creator lives in lowest sky beneath us.
Two lower worlds.
Three lower worlds.
Seven lower worlds.
Worlds above and below.
Seven worlds above and below.
Worlds above and below--miscellaneous.
World-tree.
Tree to heaven.
Tree to heaven from goddess' necklace which she hangs on branch.
Tree hanging from sky.
Tree in upper world.
Sky as overshadowing tree.
Earth under umbrella.
Primary elements of universe.
World as egg.
River connecting earth and upper and lower worlds.
Bridge connecting earth and heaven.
Heaven and earth touch each other at east, west, and south.
Size and distances of the universe.
Nine days' fall from heaven to earth; the same from earth to hell.
Nine nights' riding from heaven (or earth) to hell.
Five hundred years travel across universe.
The universe as a whole--miscellaneous.
Music of the spheres.
Big lake under the earth.
River's source where sky and earth meet.
Each world corresponds to different color.
Heaven.
Gate of heaven.
Gate of heaven guarded by clap of thunder and mysterious sword.
Doors of heaven guarded by rivers of fire.
Veils of fire and ice before chief door of heaven.
Saint Peter as porter of heaven.
Archangels Michael and Ariel as porters of two of the doors of heaven.
Abersetus as guardian of river of fire at one of the doors of heaven.
Virgins with iron rods as guardians of two of the doors in heaven.
Music in heaven.
Heavenly music caused by four columns under Lord's chair.
Music produced by precious stones in heaven.
Chairs in heaven.
Cleansing fountain in heaven.
Bridge of heaven.
Soul-bridge: easy for righteous to cross, more difficult for others.
Windows in heaven: sixty-six (seventy-two) windows in the firmament.
Self-illuminating precious stones in heaven.
Sweet odor in heaven.
Heaven surrounded by seven walls.
Land of the saints surrounded by fiery circle.
Valhalla.
Valhalla has five hundred and forty doors.
Goat (Heidr ъ
n) in Valhalla gives mead.
Hog (Soehr н
mnir) in Valhalla gives meat.
Deer (Eikthyrnir) in Valhalla fills the fountain Hvergelmir.
Cock in Valhalla awakens the gods.
Inhabitants of heaven divided into companies.
Saint sees vision of three cities in heaven: a city of gold, a city of silver, a city
of glass.
The eight paradises.
Five trees of paradise.
Girls dancing in heaven.
Upper world (heaven) as a mountain.
The plains of heaven.
Support of the sky.
God stabilizes the sky.
God of space upholds sky.
Pillar supporting sky.
Pillars supporting sky.
Four sky-columns.
Four gods at world-quarters support the sky.
Four dwarfs support the sky.
Sky extended by means of pillars.
Mountain supports sky.
Four mountains support sky.
Tree supports sky.
Sky held against earth by great octopus.
Serpent supports sky.
Ladder to heaven (applied to saint).
Eight (symbolical) steps of the ladder of heaven.
Rodent gnaws away ladder to other world and thus ghosts remain on earth.
Language of heaven.
Nature of the upper world--miscellaneous.
Judges in the upper world.
Sky of solid substance.
Hell.
Hell located to the north.
Other locations for hell.
Creation of hell.
Fire in hell.
Entrance to cave as gate to hell.
Hell confused with fairy land.
Size and arrangements of hell.
Doorkeeper of hell.
Horrible sights in hell.
Serpents in hell.
Adders in hell.
Rivers of blood in hell.
Rivers of poison in hell.
River in hell filled with weapons.
Rivers of fire in hell.
Rivers of black water in hell.
Four (three) rivers in hell.
Other rivers in hell.
Tree in hell made of living heads of the dead.
The fires of hell.
Sea of fire in hell.
Islands in sea of fire in hell.
Fiery showers in hell.
Burning plains in hell.
Fiery glens in hell.
Fiery wheels in hell.
Fiery chains in hell.
Fiery sticks in hell.
Fiery stones in hell.
Fiery nails in hell.
Fiery columns in hell.
Swift, flaming winds in hell.
Four fires in hell.
Dragons in hell.
Wolf in hell.
Gnats in hell.
Toads in hell.
Scorpions in hell.
Griffins in hell.
Birds made of iron in hell.
Lions in hell.
Scratching cats in hell.
Tigers in hell.
Frigidity of hell.
Coldness in hell.
Rugged, icy mountains in hell.
Alternate heat and cold in hell.
Well in hell (Hvergelmir).
Gate around hell.
Beings born in hell have long bodies and cling with long nails to walls.
Stygian river.
Ferryman on river in lower world (Charon).
Charon exacts fee to ferry souls across Styx.
Maiden at the bridge to hell.
Hound of hell.
Dogs in hell.
Cock of hell.
Judges in the lower world.
Ship of hell.
Workmen and tradesmen of hell.
Smith of hell.
Miller of hell.
In other world one room contains the dead, another contains souls of the unborn waiting
to enter the wombs of women, and a third contains all the evil spirits.
Sun in the underworld.
Hole to lower world up which people come.
Nature of the lower world--miscellaneous.
Dark puddles in hell.
Foul odor in hell.
Hunger in hell.
Dogs incited to devour souls in hell.
Islands of the blest.
Overseas otherworld in the west.
Intermediate future world.
Christian paradise.
Christian paradise (Terra Repromissionis) corresponding to pagan Celtic otherworld
(Ireland).
Moon as next world.
World of serpents.
Various Buddhist otherworlds.
Brahma world.
Tusita world.
Years are days in Tusita world.
Deva world.
Heavenly bodies from objects thrown into sky.
Heavenly bodies vomited up by creator.
A woman has four children: sun, moon, fire, and water.
Heavenly bodies created after the plant world.
Sun, moon, and stars forged by smith.
Sun and moon purchased.
Sun, moon, and stars nourished on fire.
Sun, moon, and darkness as god's three children.
Creation of the sky.
Creation of firmament.
Origin of sky from egg brought from primeval water.
Origin of sky from Ymir's skull.
Nature of the sky.
Sky of water.
Sky as solid vault (tent).
Sky supported by north star ("nail of the north") around which it revolves.
Celestial bodies attached to a wheel in heaven around which they move.
Why the sky is blue.
Marriage of earth and sky.
Sky measured by bird.
Clouds as props of the sky.
Sky is black because once raised by means of dirty stick.
Sky immortal, changing skin like a snake.
Angels arrange course of heavenly bodies.
Origin and nature of clouds.
Origin of clouds.
Creator makes clouds from own vitals.
Clouds as tapa beaten out by woman in moon.
Nature of clouds (covered with skin).
Sun as man who left earth.
Sun and moon as uncle and nephew who ascended to the sky.
Sun as a cannibal.
Originally a moon but no sun.
Originally no sun.
Sun as fire rekindled every morning.
Moon from light, sun from fire.
Sun and moon from cave.
Sun and moon from belly of a fish.
Sun from object thrown into sky.
Sun and moon placed for eyes in the sky.
Sun and moon placed in top of tree.
Sun from fire flung into sky.
Sun and moon metal mirrors in sky.
Sun as grindstone full of fire.
Sun and moon as spangle which falls from creator's forehead into his own urine.
Sun and moon as eyes of Rama which he tore out after his brother's death.
Wooden circles that were the sun and moon animated after human sacrifice of blood.
Sun born of first couple.
Sun and moon born from a woman.
Sun and moon born from a goddess impregnated by the wind.
Sun and moon born from an ogre.
Sun and moon from breasts of mother earth.
Sun as offspring of moon.
Sun and moon born of lizard.
Dispute at creation of sun.
Four suns at first: culture hero shoots three down.
Hero makes sun and moon from tree and sends them alternately into sky.
Hero makes sun and moon from tree and vivifies them with blood of creator's son.
Sun from transformation.
Sun from head of youth offered in sacrifice.
Sun and moon as divine bodies of gods.
Sun from fruit kernels thrown into water of flood.
Sun from transformed maggots.
Creation of sun--miscellaneous.
Sun emerges from lake.
After world catastrophe, new sun reappears and starts new epoch.
Sun created on fourth day of creation.
Formerly seven suns.
Formerly great heat of sun causes distress to mankind.
Sun kept in box.
Sun and moon kept in pots when they do not shine.
Sun shut up in pit.
Sun kept in a case.
Theft of sun.
Sun swallowed and spit out.
Great darkness due to awk swallowing the sun.
Stolen sun restored to sky.
Pale sun made right again by using egg, yellow grass, etc.
Sun falls but is lifted back to sky and tied to it.
Sun's night journey.
Sun's night journey in golden goblet.
Sun's night journey with reversed face.
Sun's night journey: in land of dead.
Sun at night closes doors.
Sun at night lowers arm.
Sun bathes in stream of fire at night.
Sun led through stream to cool off heat at night; otherwise might consume earth.
Sun hidden at night because afraid to wander.
Mountain where sun goes through.
Sun at night enters fissure between sky and earth.
Sun sits on back of a male buffalo.
At dawn sun comes to play with the moon.
Sun and moon to remain half their time in underworld.
Sun worships God by night.
Visible sun is the "pet" of real sun.
Sun is man during day.
Boat of the sun.
Chariot of the sun.
Charioteer of the sun.
Coyote rides with sun.
Pha л
ton.
Chariot of sun accompanied by angels.
The sun a golden bowl on the rim of which sits a peacock; both bowl and peacock are in a crystal
box, which rests on a flying chariot.
Man controls rising and setting of sun.
Sun does not set for a year through power of saint.
Daily course of sun across sky.
Sun and moon make daily tour under direct orders of God.
Wings of sun.
Raising the sun.
Sun originally so hot that it threatens all life.
Sun caught in snare.
Sun-snarer: burnt mantle.
Sun-snarer: fast sun.
Sun visits earth in form of black bull, caught by man, thus causing night.
Sun and moon carried through sky by animals.
Sun as king of sky and earth.
Sun sits on throne.
Crown of the sun.
The sun's animals.
Cattle and sheep of the sun.
Horse of the sun.
Slave shoots arrow into leg of sun's horse.
Heat and light of the sun.
Why sunlight is so much stronger than moonlight.
Mortal cannot look at sun since God's name is engraved on it.
Two faces of the sun: fire, directed toward earth; hail, directed toward heaven.
Beams of light are snares with which sun is tied to earth.
Sun dries out earth with its heat.
Sun hides.
Sun hides in cave.
Pursuit of sun by moon.
Moon tied to sun so that when sun sinks moon is dragged up to light earth.
Sun and moon pursued by dark planet in black chariot.
Sun as human being.
Sun and moon as man and woman.
Sun sister and moon brother.
Sun-brother and moon-sister.
Sun and moon as lovers.
Sun and moon married.
Sun and moon quarrel when sun eats up all their children but two.
Moon kills sun's children.
Moon, sun are sister and brother, wife and husband.
Creator separates sun and moon to prevent birth of more stars.
Sun as woman.
Sun and moon as brothers.
Sun and moon as twin brothers.
Sun and moon brothers: sun clever, moon stupid.
Sun and his brother rise and set alternately.
Sun and moon as sisters, daughters of sky-god.
Children of the sun.
Son of sun so hot no one can hold it.
Children from union with the sun turn into bit of blood in daytime as soon as they are
exposed to sun; take human form (shape) again at sunset.
Sun and moon as friends.
Sun's affection for human girl rouses moon's jealousy.
Sun marries woman.
Original moon changed into sun and sun into moon.
Sun cursed by moon.
Human son of sun.
Contest between sun and moon.
Causes of eclipses (sun or moon).
Origin of eclipse of moon.
Eclipse caused by monster devouring sun or moon.
Cause of eclipses: mother's curse laid upon her third son.
Toad causes eclipses of the sun.
Ghosts of the sun's children return to cause eclipse.
Moon's eclipse caused by moon's interfering between attacker and person attacked.
Eclipses caused by animal hiding sun behind his body.
Eclipses from quarrels between moon and sun.
Eclipses when sun smears his face on account of mourning.
Sun hides face in shame: eclipse.
Eclipse as punishment by deity.
Eclipses because sun cannot endure tragic happenings of history.
Partial eclipses because of ailments of sun or moon.
Attributes of sun.
Physical attributes.
Sun and moon are balls of feathers.
Sun a fat woman walking across sky.
Mental powers and disposition of sun.
Religious sun and moon.
Sun endowed with wisdom and passion.
Sun's healing powers.
Sun's power over plants.
Nature and condition of the sun--miscellaneous.
Sun at the edge of the sky.
War with the sun.
Each of sun brothers works for a month and plays for the other eleven; were they to
work all together, the world would be burned up by the heat.
Reason for variations in seasonal heat of sun.
Why the sun is red.
Sun sets and refuses to rise: must be coaxed back from underworld.
Sun's all-seeing eye.
Sun as caretaker of the poor.
Sun has weapons of iron to repel enemies.
Moon from object (person) thrown into sky.
Moon is water slung into sky.
Chest of sacrificed youth becomes the moon.
Moon as grinder which brings fire out of the sun.
Moon made from shining fragments.
Moon from transformed object.
Origin of moon from shell.
Heavenly smith is hammering on the moon.
Family of the moon.
Moon born from first couple.
Mother of the moon: the most distant star in the sky.
Moon younger brother of the sun.
Person transformed to moon.
Man in the moon.
Man in moon is person thrown or sent there as punishment.
Man in moon has punishment for burning brush on Sunday.
Man in moon is put there as punishment for cursing God.
Man in moon as punishment for disdainful sacrifice (Cain).
Man in moon banished there for stealing bundle of thorns.
Man in the moon a rabbit (hare, other animal).
Frog in moon.
Man in moon a frog which has jumped into person's face and remains there.
Man in the moon: tarring of the moon.
Man in the moon from scratches or paint.
Man in the moon: moon's face scratched by hare in retaliation for injury to hare.
Man in the moon: dung (ashes) on moon's face smeared there by sun.
Moon wants to marry his sister the sun.
Mark of her mother's hand to be seen on moon's shoulder.
Mark of tiger's paw on moon.
Moon spots are tattoo marks.
Cotton tree and nettles on moon.
Spots on moon a banyan tree planted there by creator to diminish its light.
Two children in moon with yoke and bucket.
Woman in the moon.
Man in the moon is an old woman busy with her spindle.
Man in moon is a woman threshing corn with a dog by her side.
Goddess in moon with calabash at her side.
Woman in moon's oven seen on clear nights.
Girl with tree carried to moon and is seen there.
Goddess in moon beating tapa beneath tree.
Miscellaneous images on moon.
Rows of palm trees (black spots) on the moon.
Bag in the moon.
Giant in moon.
Particular individual is man in the moon.
Joshua as man in the moon.
Jacob as man in the moon.
Other marks on the moon.
Moon as a person.
Moon as wooer.
Moon abducts woman.
Moon (man) cohabits with woman.
Moon (goddess, woman) cohabits with mortal man.
Moon married to mortal woman.
Moon married to son of sky-god.
Moon is wife to all twelve brothers of the sun and they have her a month at a time
because she ate up her sisters.
Moon and mortal have child.
Moon has house.
Moon as person--miscellaneous.
Moon deceives sun.
Moon steals from a garden.
During day moon stays with his mother under the earth.
Moon endowed with wisdom and passion.
Moon kept in box.
Moon buried in pit.
Moon falls into pit but is rescued by man.
Causes of moon's phases.
Moon's phases caused by its being put in box.
Moon's phases caused by watcher's death.
Moon's waning caused by her sickness.
Sacrifice made to free moon from sickness and allow waxing.
Moon cut in two by sun: hence waxes and wanes.
Moon cut in half.
Moon stolen and divided into quarters.
Moon's phases caused by animals gnawing at edge.
Moon's phases caused by feeding or starving.
Moon's phases as punishment for moon's misdoing.
Moon's waning caused by menstrual period.
Moon as sun's representative at night.
Moon-boat.
Moon-chariot.
Theft of moon.
Condition and nature of the moon--miscellaneous.
Moon has wooden weapons, therefore vulnerable.
Sun and moon as divine hero's wedding presents.
Why the moon is pale.
Moon is hare covered with silver, which lives in crystal house with fifteen windows.
Formerly seven moons.
Moon under direct control of deity.
Planet Mars lies on moon to impart warmth to her lest she freeze the earth.
Stars created by creator.
Star from union of girl with peacock.
Ascent to stars.
River taken to sky becomes star.
Chariot from heaven takes couple to live with sages in the Great Bear.
Stars as transformed lovers.
Stars as fires in the hearths of ghosts.
Stars are men peering through holes in sky.
Stars thought of as living beings.
Star descends as human being.
Star-husband.
Mortal marries star-girl.
Stars from objects thrown into sky.
Stars from arrows shot at sky.
Stars hung by god in heavens to decorate it.
Stars as pieces of the moon.
Stars as children of the moon.
Stars as children of sun eaten by their father.
Sun eats all his own children except morning star, while moon keeps all her children in
hiding.
Stars as children of sun and moon.
Stars as drops of the moon's blood.
Most brilliant stars children of the sun; others are children of the moon.
Stars are transformed spittle of the moon.
Naming the stars.
Origin of constellations.
Stars sing together.
Creation of the stars--miscellaneous.
Stars are trees growing on the clouds.
Stars rebel against God.
Stars supervised by angels.
Speaking stars.
Sun gives light to stars.
Origin of the Great Bear (Ursa Major).
Origin of the Southern Cross.
Origin of Orion.
Origin of the Pleiades.
Pleiades a princess and six suitors among whom she could not choose.
Pleiades six repudiated wives.
Pleiades girls who died of grief.
Pleiades seven illegitimate children.
Pleiades from hunters marooned in sky after felling world-tree.
Pleiades as swarm of bees.
Two stars from Great Bear constellation transferred to Pleiades.
Origin of the North Star.
Origin of Hyades.
Origin of constellation Lyra.
Origin of Vega (Alpha Lyrae).
Origin of constellation Scorpio.
Origin of the Milky Way.
Origin of Magellanic Clouds.
Milky Way a hunting party.
Milky Way is the Wild Hunt.
Milky Way as a road.
Milky Way as path of souls (demons).
Milky Way as a river.
Milky Way as a stitched seam in the sky.
Milky Way as milk from breast of a woman.
Milky Way as the sperma of the gods.
Milky Way as path of a bird of passage.
Milky Way is smoke (ashes).
Milky Way as race track.
Abyss at end of Milky Way.
Origin of stars--miscellaneous.
Origin of Coal Sack.
Origin of constellation Aquila.
Origin of constellation Argo.
Planets supervised by angels.
Origin of Venus (planet).
Origin of Morning Star.
Origin of Evening Star.
Origin of Jupiter (planet).
Origin of comets.
Relation of the planets to human life.
Origin of meteors.
Falling stars as pieces of the moon.
Shooting star one that has come down to graze.
Shooting stars spirits coming down to earth to make woman pregnant.
Shooting stars are star-dung.
Shooting stars are unfaithful wives.
Heavenly lights originate from firmament.
Origin of the Rainbow.
Rainbow as bow of deity.
Rainbow as snake.
Rainbow made as bridge by the gods.
Rainbow has three colors.
Rainbow is a transformed king; the lesser rainbow is the king's wife.
Rainbow from gods' emptying their drinking cups.
Rainbow is horse of rain-god.
Rainbow comes out of an anthill.
Rainbow lives in a hole.
Origin of rainbow: transformed butterflies (souls of lovers).
Rainbow as covenant between creator and men.
Origin of the Northern Lights (Aurora Borealis).
Origin of the signs of the zodiac.
Origin of colors at sunrise and sunset.
Earth born of Chaos.
China first land to appear in our world.
God and Devil fly together over primeval water.
Primeval water to subside in a specified time.
Waters of heaven would engulf earth were it not for firmament.
Earth brought up from bottom of primeval water.
Earth originates from fish brought from bottom of sea.
Earth brought up by three gods.
Earth Diver.
Devil as Earth Diver.
Earth from egg from bottom of sea recovered by bird.
Creator sends crow, after creating her, to scout for earth-nucleus.
Raft in primeval sea.
Earth in form of raft supported by spirits.
Lotus-leaf raft in primeval sea.
Creator rests on tree or stake.
Earth from object thrown on primeval water.
Earth from stone thrown on primeval water.
Earth from sand strewn on primeval water.
Earth from decayed matter on primeval water.
Earth from tree grown in primeval water.
Earth from steam made by fire thrown into primeval water.
Earth scattered in a circuit in four directions on primeval water.
Earth from primeval water mixed with seeds of tobacco.
Earth from lotus seed placed on water.
Earth from egg breaking on primeval water.
Earth from creator's spittle falling on primeval water.
Earth from spittle of primeval potter spreading on surface of water.
Earth from turtle's back.
Earth from serpent's head.
Earth rises from sea.
Stone emerges from primeval water.
Ocean under this world.
God causes primeval sea to roll back and leave bare all the hills.
Earth let down from sky on to primeval ocean.
Earth made of lac.
Earth made by mud shaken from back of primeval boar.
World is transformed mud parrot in golden cage.
Earth made by cups of earth placed on spider's web.
Earth made by transformation of broken ground.
Earth made by first couple dancing on bit of cloth laid on water.
Earth sets like curds.
Earth made by drying up of primeval water.
Earth from worm scratched by creator's nails.
Earth excreted by worm.
Earth from body of person (animal).
Earth from body of son of deity.
Earth from giant's body (Ymir).
Earth by sacrifice of son and daughter of first couple.
Earth by murder of first brother and sister.
Earth from the body of murdered child.
Earth from body of slain animal.
Earth from body of divine suicide.
Gods create the earth from their dead victim's blood and bones.
Earth created from Adam's body.
Creation because of creator's lonesomeness.
Earth from creator's cuticle.
Earth from nut in devil's mouth.
Earth created from snow under divine throne.
Creator prepared earth's nucleus as one would a rice cake.
Creator creates earth piecemeal.
World-columns.
The four world-columns fastened immovably by two gods with their mother's hairs.
Four world-cords.
Four maidens as earth-supports.
Twelve iron pillars steady the earth.
Four earth-nails.
Atlas.
Goddess standing on her head supports earth.
Old woman supports earth on her head.
Earth supported on post.
Earth supported on cross of wood.
Earth rests on animal's back.
Earth rests on turtle's back.
Earth supported by bull.
Earth supported by fish.
Earth supported by frog.
Earth rests on the horns of a bull who rests upon a fish.
Earth rests on tortoise, serpent, elephant.
Earth rests on elephant's back.
Earth rests on cobra's head.
Earth supported on great boar's tusk.
Earth supported on vast number of birds' legs.
Earth rests on leviathan.
Serpent supports the earth.
Support of the earth--miscellaneous.
Earth founded on stone.
Earth rests on God's arm.
Earth supported by prop.
How the earth became oblong.
Making the earth smaller.
Making the earth larger.
Doubling size of the earth.
Opposite of present.
Hardening of the earth.
Primeval earth hardened by wind.
Ground, previously all wet, dries up when first woman cuts her little finger and blood drips on ground.
Steadying the earth.
Why earth becomes warm and wet: two huge copper vessels steaming over fire are underneath earth.
Creator's giant servant puts a valley where earth's crust is heavy and a mountain where it is light so as to stabilize it.
Creator's giant servant puts trees to hold earth together where it slipped.
Roots created to hold land firm.
Earth square with four quarters.
Taprobane at eastern end of the world.
Unextinguishable fire at end of earth.
Four streams from four corners of earth.
Four rivers, rising in paradise, water primitive world.
River that flows around the world.
Seven seas encircle the world.
Above and below the earth are great clouds.
Earth wheel-shaped (flat and round).
Navel of the earth.
Mountain at center of earth.
Well in the midst of earth from which eleven rivers originate.
Midgard Serpent.
The leviathan that surrounds the globe.
Earth-tree.
Stream of paradise from roots of world-tree.
Other streams from roots of earth-tree.
Three wells under the three roots of earth-tree.
Lake of milk by tree of life.
Animals at earth-tree.
Snake at roots of earth-tree.
Hart(s) eating of the earth-tree.
Chattering squirrel in the earth-tree.
Wise eagle in the earth-tree.
Hawk in the earth-tree.
Golden cock in earth-tree.
Earth-tree furnishes health-giving and hunger-satisfying sap.
Zones of earth corresponding to Zodiac.
Topographical features caused by experiences of primitive hero (demigod, deity).
Topographical changes or landmarks due to battle between gods.
Natural features because of combat of huge rock columns with each other.
Topographical features of the earth arranged by creator.
Two creators go by different route to establish features of the earth.
Topographical features caused by animals.
Waters created on first day of creation.
Waters created as punishment.
Bodies of water in primitive abyss sink.
Bodies of water remnant of flood.
Waters created by divine twins.
Bodies of water from tears.
Origin of tides.
Tidal wave or surge marks place of death of person.
Tide caused by breathing of sea-monster.
Ebb-tide goes to great whirlpool.
Tub that drips at high tide but holds water at low tide.
Mountains push water westward.
Why waters do not engulf the earth.
Quarrel between earth and waters.
Male and female waters.
Origin of lakes.
Origin of particular lake.
Inexhaustible buckets as source of lakes.
Lakes from digging of primeval ox.
Lake bursts forth to drown thief.
River bursts from well in pursuit.
Lakes burst forth to commemorate birth, death, battle, etc., of primitive hero
Lakes originate from tears.
Lakes originate from belches.
Lake from urine of horse.
Lake created by fairies.
Lake bursts forth to quell fairy war.
Lake bursts forth to drown impious people.
Lake from violating tabu.
Lake bursts forth where island is plowed out.
Lakes made by giant or devil.
Woman transformed to pool of water.
Lake bursts forth where blind king plucks rushes.
Lake of milk formed through virtue of saint.
Lakes are daughters of the gods.
Origin of the Dead Sea.
Lake originally filled with palm wine.
Origin of sea channels.
Ocean the son of Earth and Heaven.
Ocean made from blood.
Ocean from creator's sweat.
Ocean from urine.
Miscellaneous origins of the ocean.
Origin of sea from overturned calabash.
Origin of sea from rotting snakes.
Sea released from tree-top.
Sea from earth excavation.
Origin of various qualities of the sea.
Origin of high sea waves.
Origin of sea's color.
Origin of foul odor of sea.
Origin of fresh water welling up in sea.
Origin of mournful sound of sea.
Origin of surf.
Origin of shining patches beneath sea.
Giant drinks up ocean.
Creator of rivers.
Snake as creator of rivers and lakes.
Meander-pursuit.
River from urine of goddess (giantess).
River from the slaver of the Fenris-wolf.
River from vagina of first woman.
Various origins of rivers.
Rivers from digging of primeval ox.
Rivers formed where certain stones are placed.
Rivers burst forth to commemorate birth, death, battle, etc., of primitive hero.
Rivers where god drags his staff.
Rivers originate through saint's prayer during drought.
Hail-storm leaves twelve chief rivers in Ireland.
River bursts from well in pursuit.
Rivers from mythical well.
Stream unexpectedly bursts from side of mountain.
Origin of river: from a girl drowned in a well.
River from transformation.
Girl reincarnated as river so god Vishnu can lie in its bed in the form of a stone.
Person transforms self to river.
Goddess in anger breaks herself into five parts: hence, five branches of a river.
Origin of river: transformed flowing honey.
Peacock shows rivers the way to the big valley so they will not go round and round.
Origin of falls (cataracts).
Why there is no mist on a certain river: fanned away with a pair of eagle's wings.
Rivers and streams offspring of marriage of Ocean and his sister.
Origin of springs.
Origin of a particular spring.
Springs originate from horse's hoof-prints.
Spring from urine of horse.
Spring breaks forth where fairy horse lies down.
Springs originate from tears.
Spring from striking earth with sword.
Spring breaks forth where magic spear strikes ground.
Spring where god throws his staff or spear.
Spring breaks forth to commemorate experiences of hero (deity).
Spring breaks forth to commemorate place of death or burial.
Spring breaks forth at primitive hero's need.
Spring breaks forth at need of demigod's warriors.
Spring breaks forth through power of saint.
Fountain breaks forth through power of Virgin Mary.
Wells break forth at birth of Christ.
Spring breaks forth where saint smites rock.
Many-colored fountain breaks forth where saint strikes earth with his foot.
Spring breaks forth through power of saint at place where leper pulls out clump of rushes.
Spring breaks forth where animal delivers book left behind by saint.
Spring breaks forth where saint's stolen cow is found.
Cloth from goddess, when spread by holy man over a spot, causes water to spring from earth.
Origin of springs where deity dug.
Spring from innocent king's blood.
Breaking forth of springs partial cause of Flood.
Springs from beneath magic (holy) object.
Spring from beneath world-tree.
Spring from roots of sacred tree when arrow is shot into it.
Stream from under holy of holies in temple.
Origin of hot springs (geysers).
Hot springs rise where Christ bathed his feet.
Origin of salt springs.
Contours of land caused by plowing of goddess.
River valley licked out by giant beast.
Contours of land caused by rooting of swine.
Contours of land caused by occult hero driving harrow.
Land rises out of sea.
Land thrown down from heaven.
Land born from goddess.
Origin of islands.
Islands created by order of deity.
Islands as deity's stepping-stones.
Island created by shooting arrow.
Origin of island's shape and position.
Origin of an island's shape.
Origin of island's position.
Primeval hero moves islands into their present position.
Island plowed out by goddess.
Islands from cow and calf transformed by evil eye of one-eyed god.
Islands from stones cast by giantess.
Islands from webs woven by primeval spiders.
Island fished-up by demigod (hero).
Goddess gives birth to islands.
Islands from transformed object or person.
Islands originally form continent, later separated.
Old woman as guardian of floating islands of the gods.
Origin of peninsulas.
Origin of desert.
Mountains from primeval animal.
Hills from flapping of primeval bird.
Mountains from hacked-up fish drawn from bottom of primeval water.
Mountain from accident to primeval lizard.
Mountains spring from scattered parts of slain giant serpent's body.
Mountains (cliffs) from bones of killed giant.
Mountains (hills) from ancient activities of god (hero).
Mountain from part of deity's (hero's) body.
Mountains made with God's hand.
Mountains from primeval journeys of a god.
Mountains pressed together by God.
Mountains made with the hand.
Mountains originated from primeval journeys of the first man.
Hills from hero's striking (earth) with sword.
Origin of hills and ridges: pieces of shattered god's head.
Mountains and hills are former sons, daughters of gods.
Hills represent loads from culture-hero's shoulders.
Mountains from stones (soil, sand) dropped or thrown.
Mountains from stones dropped from giant's clothes.
Mountains from breaking of God's sieve.
Soil dropped to form mountains.
Mountains and hills from stones thrown by giant at church.
Hills from stones cast by giants.
Hill from anvil (cast by supernatural smith).
Hill from sand left by passersby.
Hill as unfinished tower built in the likeness of Nimrod's tower.
Clay soil dropped from sky to form hill.
Mountains (hills) from ancient contest (fight).
Holes in hills result of fight between gods.
Mountains fight each other: cause of their present shape.
Mountains fight each other for honor of being the spot for the revelation.
Battle of demons: hills torn up.
Origin of mountain chain.
One mountain in love with another stretches leg out to meet her: origin of a mountain chain.
Origin of volcanoes.
Origin of mounds.
Mounds from horns cast by cattle.
Origin of cliffs.
Cliffs become hard.
Cliff from lovers' leap.
Creation of mountains and hills--miscellaneous.
Mountain from buried giant.
Cloud on lofty male mountain induced by a beautiful female mountain to bow to her feet: hence their present shape.
Mountains and valleys formed from great fire.
Hills because sky asked earth to wrinkle up its feet.
Water freezes and forms mountains.
Hill brought to country as adopted child.
Origin of mountains as punishment.
Origin of crevasse.
Mountain or hills from actions of the devil.
Origin of rocks from breaking of God's sieve.
Indentions on rocks from prints left by man (beast).
Indentions on rocks from imprint of gods and saints.
Indentions on rocks from footprints of Christ.
Priest stamps on stone to prove truth of pope; print is still visible.
Footprints of holy man are still seen in stone where he stood to preach.
Indentions on rocks from footprints of fairies (angels, devils).
Indention on rock from footprint of angel.
The devil's footprint.
Holes in stones caused by piercing by saint's finger.
Holes in stone caused by saint (warrior).
Indentions on rock from weapons (limbs) of robbers through power of saint.
Indentions on rocks from footprints of saint's cow.
Imprint of horse in rocks.
Indentions on rocks from marks of various persons.
Indentions on rocks from head of infant hero (saint).
Chasms between rocks mark "leaps" of giants, heroes, etc.
Indentions on rock from paws of King Arthur's dog.
Indentions on rocks from weapons, knees, and elbows (of persons slain by hero).
Rocks or hill-tops flat because persons (gods) slept or cooked on them.
Hole in stone caused by weapon of warrior.
Indentions on rocks caused by giants.
Great fish killed by hero and cut into sixteen pieces: the great stones may still be seen.
Origin of stones: punishment for discourtesy.
Rocks from transformation of people to stone.
Certain stones are druids transformed by power of saint.
Certain stones are transformed giants.
Why stones became hard.
Why stones no longer grow.
Why stones no longer grow: punishment for injuring foot of holy person.
Why certain rock produces fire when struck with steel.
Fire producing rock result of contest between god of fire and god of rain.
Why rocks at river are covered with moss.
Origin of particular stones or groups of stones.
Giant responsible for certain stones.
Devil throws stones.
Devil and man throw stones in contest.
The devil throws stones at church or churchmen.
Devil throws down quoits when he is told that it is wrong to play on Sunday.
Devil drops stones.
The devil drops stones from apron.
The devil turns object or animal to stone which is still seen.
Origin of particular rock.
Certain stones are cheeses transformed by saint.
Pile of stones in certain chapel formed of fragments of salmon transformed by saint.
Stone column is membrum virile of ancient hero.
Two rocks from split and transformed lapdog.
Origin of minerals.
Origin of minerals from body of dead culture hero.
Iron created to punish cedar's pride.
Origin of emeralds from marvelous vase broken into pieces.
Other stories about stone origins.
Stone rent at time of crucifixion.
Origin of valleys or hollows.
Pillars of Hercules at Gibraltar set up by Hercules.
Bridge of the Gods.
Cairn marks burial place.
Origin of particular places--miscellaneous.
Dark brown patches on soil mark place where marvelous cow (Glas) and her calf lay.
Roads marked out by supernatural cows.
Certain stones are druids' (saints') seats (chairs).
Pile of stones (cairn) marks site of battle.
Origin of villages.
Origin of sacred places.
Origin of sacred post (placed there by ancestral culture hero).
Sacred place where thunderbolt fell down.
Ground bursts open and a temple rises from it.
Five great roads of Ireland "discovered" on night of king's birth.
Origin of cities.
Origin of settlements (places later to be settled).
Origin of boundaries.
Origin of clay.
Series of world catastrophes.
Doomsday.
Widespread calamity when feast of John the Baptist shall fall on certain day.
Signs before the Day of Judgment.
No rainbow for fifteen years before the Day of Judgment.
Bleeding wood as sign of Doomsday.
Talking stone as sign of Doomsday.
Unusual migration of birds as sign of Doomsday.
Calamity as punishment for sin.
Preservation of life during world calamity.
Preservation of life of certain persons in Ireland during Flood.
Inclosure made during world calamity and only best types of animals and men preserved.
Holy Land not ravaged by deluge.
Renewal of world after world calamity.
New race from single pair (or several) after world calamity.
New race from incest after world calamity.
New race made of red earth after world calamity.
New race from union of girl and rat.
Ireland repopulated by persons who escape flood.
Ireland, waste for centuries after flood, is repopulated by immigrants.
Whole tribe descended from lone woman-survivor of doomed city.
One bear-child escapes death, is ancestor of all bears.
After world-fire life recreated from tree.
World calamity will begin in Palestine.
World catastrophes--miscellaneous.
First race of men perishes when sun first rises.
Animate and inanimate objects attempt to destroy humanity.
Large stone falls from sky killing all but one couple.
Sun and moon do not shine during deluge.
Great flood lasts eight months.
Local deluges.
Flood partially caused by breaking forth of springs.
Flood caused by rising of river.
God's promise never to destroy world by water does not apply to local floods.
Flood from fluids of the body.
Flood from tears.
Flood from Adam's tears of repentance.
Flood from tears of grieving lover.
Flood from urine.
Flood caused by loosing fairy horse and allowing it to stale.
Flood from blood.
Flood from slain giant's blood.
Flood from belly.
Vomiting of a whale causes flood.
Flood caused by gods or other superior beings.
Flood from conflict of gods.
Flood from conflict of monsters (giant animals).
Spirit causes deluge.
Flood caused by deity stamping on floor of heavens.
Pseudo-scientific explanations of the flood.
Flood from animals' boring into ground (turtles, crawfishes, etc.).
Deluge produced by hot liquid which burns as it floods.
Flood caused by melting of ice after great spell of cold.
Flood from broken calabashes of water.
Making mountains out of flat earth causes flood.
Moon falls into sea and causes flood by overflowing.
Flood whenever shard at earth's core moves.
Flood caused to satisfy emotional need.
Desire of man for sun causes flood.
Flood caused by prayer.
Flood caused by curse.
Flood as punishment.
Flood as punishment for breaking tabu.
Flood as punishment for incest.
Flood brought as revenge for injury.
Deluge--miscellaneous.
Subsidence of earth beneath flood.
Serpent king causes flood by damming rivers.
Flood because earth has become too thickly populated.
Flood puts out world-fire.
Deluge: escape in boat (ark).
Persons excluded from Noah's ark build another ark and sail to Ireland.
Escape from deluge in wooden cask (drum).
Deluge: escape in gourd.
Deluge: escape on floating tree.
Deluge: escape in hollow tree trunk.
Deluge: escape on floating building.
Pairs of animals in ark.
Bird scouts sent out from ark.
Escape from deluge on mountain.
Escape from deluge on tree.
Escape from deluge in cave.
Escape from deluge on island.
Escape from deluge on foot.
Rescue from deluge by fish.
Bringing deluge to end.
Trickster sticks spear in ground and leads water to sea, ending deluge.
Birds fill sea with dirt and overcome flood.
Escape from deluge--miscellaneous.
Marvelous tree survives deluge.
(Four) persons who, in four quarters of the world, survived the flood and thus preserved ancient tradition.
Escape from deluge in pot or jar.
Flood: refuge in huge gourds with seven rooms in each.
Escape from deluge in box or basket.
Survivors of flood establish homes.
Causes of world-fire.
A "flame of fire swifter than a blast of wind" as punishment for the sin of the Irish.
World-fire after theft of fire.
Evil demons set world on fire.
Fall of sun causes world-fire.
All countries burned while the wife of sun god pours fire from a small bowl.
World-fire because of man's arrogance.
Miscellaneous reasons for world-fire.
Quenching the world-fire.
Rain invoked to destroy world-fire.
Creator puts out world-fire with his staff.
Earth recreated after world-fire.
Men hide from world-fire and renew race.
World-fire--miscellaneous.
Vulture sent out as scout to see whether earth has cooled from world-fire.
One pair escapes continuous winter and renews race.
Continuous world-eclipse.
World-eclipse ended by bat making sun smile.
Behavior of stars at end of world.
Stars fall down at end of world.
End of world when stars in one constellation overtake those in another.
Behavior of sun at end of world.
Sun devoured by monster at end of world.
Sun shining at night as sign of Doomsday.
End of world when four (seven) suns appear in sky.
Behavior of moon at end of world.
Moon shining by day as sign of Doomsday.
Seven days silence in whole universe at the end of the world.
End of world when culture hero removes one of the world-props.
Earth sinks into sea at end of world.
Earthquakes at the end of the world.
Mountains fall together at end of world.
Water-disturbances at end of world.
Sea makes extraordinary noise and throws out fishes at end of world.
Sea water mixes with fresh water at end of the world.
Continuous drought at end of world.
Sun will lock moon in deep ditch in earth's bottom and will eat up stars at end of world.
Extraordinary wind at end of the world.
Sun thrown on fire: period of darkness, rain.
Flow of molten metal at end of world.
Birth of monsters as sign at end of world.
Fettering of underground monster.
Underground monster fettered by trick.
Forging of chain for fettered monster.
Form of fettered monster.
Fettered monster in human form.
Fettered monster as ferocious animal.
Fettered monster as snake.
Fettered monster as dragon.
Fettered monster's captivity.
Monster fettered with sword just out of reach.
Fettered monster's vain attempt to reach sword with man's help.
Fettered monster questions visitor.
Fettered monster preyed upon by vulture.
Fettered monster kept just out of reach of water.
Fettered monster vainly loosens his stake.
Fettered monster's weakened chains renewed by supernatural power.
Fettered monster's weakened chains renewed by stroke of a smith.
End of world heralded by coming of Antichrist, a gigantic destructive one-eyed monster.
Signs before the birth of Antichrist.
Horse shall wade in blood at Armageddon.
Battle of the gods at end of world.
Battle of gods and monster at end of world.
Battle of gods and giants at end of world.
Odin battles Fenris Wolf at end of world.
Other gods battle Fenris wolf at end of world.
God battles hound of hell at end of world.
Thor battles Midgard serpent at end of world.
End of world to come at disease and death of snake encircling the world.
God battles Leviathan at end of world.
God conquers Satan at end of world.
Battle of saints with Lucifer at end of world.
Battle of angels with Leviathan and Behemoth at end of world.
Prophecy of defeat in battle as sign of end of the world.
End of the gods.
Monsters kill each other off at end of world.
Natural laws inoperative at end of world.
Three horses from dove's egg on last day.
End of world announced by trumpet.
The Messianic Age.
Extraordinary man at end of the world.
World calamities--additional motifs.
World destroyed by rain of stones.
World devoured by ogre.
World turned topsy-turvy and eaten by an earthworm.
The four ages of the world.
Golden age.
Reign of peace and justice (under certain king).
Even trees could speak in golden age.
Former age: spirits and ogres lived with men, and gods appeared in human guise.
Reversal of nature in former age.
Formerly men plowed and cattle were their masters.
Formerly men ate grass: cattle ate rice and pulse.
Formerly men dumb: birds and animals talked.
Formerly men could go safely beneath the sea.
Why powers of nature work on Sabbath.
Nature transformed by God once in seven years.
Impounded water.
God promises never again to destroy world by water.
Why the sea is salt.
Why the sea is salt: because of wrecked salt ship.
Why the sea is salt: magic salt mill.
Why the sea is salt: heavy rain showers on ashes of wood burnt by primeval fire.
Origin of sea-waves.
Sea-waves are (manes of) sea-god's horses.
Origin of foam on waters.
Origin of swirling motion of water.
Establishment of present order: waters--miscellaneous.
Why sea is blue.
Why sea waters are warm: kept so by Leviathan.
Origin of sea's unpleasant odor.
Breathing of deity (spirit) causes winds.
Cave of winds.
Hole of winds: stopper destroyed.
Wind a bird dwelling in mountain-hole.
Lost wind found in hollow tree: has been banished and is needed by men.
Wind comes through holes in sky when gut covering is cut.
Winds as children of titans (giants).
Winds caused by flapping wings.
Wind caused by flapping of ears of giant.
Wind caused by wind-god's movements.
Winds of the four quarters established.
Effect of the four winds on weather.
North wind tempers fury of south wind.
South wind causes heat and hurricanes.
Gentle west wind said to be exhausted from fleeing deity.
Regulation of winds.
Angels' wings protect earth from winds.
When wind-spirit is awake it storms; asleep, it is calm.
Establishment of present order: winds--miscellaneous.
Creator establishes twelve winds, each a different color.
Origin of monsoon: from chewed skin and spit of pair of divine friends eating guavas.
Wind is blind.
Angels set over clouds, winds, and rains.
Origin of storms in sixth heaven.
Origin of rain.
Regulation of rains.
Why it rains most in the hills.
Rain from tears.
Rain from urine.
Rainy weather sent by saint as punishment.
Rain from sea in upper world.
Rain from container in sky.
Rain kept in waterskin dragged along sky floor.
Rain from rain-god (rain spirit).
Rain shed by stars.
Origin of dew.
Origin of clouds.
Origin of clouds from Ymir's brain.
Origin of clouds: creator ornaments the sky with clouds so that the mountains are sometimes shaded.
Clouds as smoke rising to sky.
Clouds as God's shield.
Origin of mist (fog).
Origin of wintry weather.
Origin of cold in winter.
Origin of cold: sun turns fiery face upward.
Origin of snow.
Snow from feathers or clothes of a witch (Frau Holle).
Origin of frost.
Origin of hail.
Causes of hot weather: God bores hole in hell.
Origin of lightning.
Lightning as fiery snake.
Lightning from flashing sword.
Lightning from heavenly horses striking hoofs against stars.
Lightning as god's whip.
Lightning as God's messenger.
Lightning produced by deity.
Lightning from fire.
Lightning as torches of invisible dancers.
Origin of lightning--other motifs.
Origin of thunder.
Origin of thunderbolt.
Creator's (deity's) voice makes thunder.
Thunder from flying dragon.
Persons escape to sky and become thunder.
Origin of thunder clouds: from wings of mountains.
Thunder is sound of God's gun.
Thunder caused by God beating his weapon.
Thunder from crashing of stones in moon as goddess beats tapa.
Thunder from thunder-spirit beating his children.
Cause of thunder: sounds of the horses' hoofs as gods play ball.
Thunder from clashing weapons of warring spirits in sky.
Thunder from deity separating the winds which try to unite.
Thunder is noise of waterskin which rain-god drags along sky floor.
Thunder made by giants in sky.
Thunder the drums of dead.
Cause of earthquakes.
Earthquakes from movements of subterranean monster.
Earthquakes from movements of sea-monster.
Origin of stormy sky.
Origin of red sky (blood).
Origin of tornado sunsets; i.e., peculiar sunsets foreboding tornadoes.
Establishment of times for sowing and reaping.
Theft of the seasons.
Boneless man turned over to produce seasons.
Seasons produced by marriage of North and South.
Genealogy of summer and winter.
Why days lengthen in spring.
Why days shorten in autumn: the real sun sets very early because the red cockscomb plant, used to kill his brother sun with, grows to
its full height during this time.
Causes of seasons--deities push sun back and forth at solstices.
February's shortage of days.
Origin of day.
Opening of creator's eyes creates day.
Windows in firmament shed light.
Angels of the day: Origin of day: son of the night and the dawn.
Determination of night and day.
Regulation of sunshine.
Wallet containing night and day.
Night and day have steeds and chase each other.
Origin of night.
Night (darkness) in package.
Why some nights are dark and some light.
Purchase of night.
Night stolen and kept in jar.
Night caused by deity wrapping himself in dark mantle.
Why sun shines on Saturday (Friday).
Origin of "yesterday" and "today." Origin of night and day--miscellaneous.
Origin of twilight.
Twilight reflection of fires of hell.
Origin of dawn.
Dawn reflection of roses of paradise.
Determination of world center.
Determination of world quarters.
Wings cut from flying mountains.
Measuring the world.
Creator appoints a chief for each class of created things: Lucifer for demons, Sion for mountains, etc.
All things receive names.
Origin of echo.
Why salt disappeared from forests.
Man created to rule the earth.
Unacceptable gods as first inhabitants of earth.
Man made from creator's body.
Man springs into existence from deity's body by his mere thinking.
Man from dirt mixed with creator's blood.
Man from sweat of creator.
Man from spittle of creator.
Being made from spittle of the gods.
Man made from creator's eye.
Man made from dirt rubbed from creator's (hero's) body.
Man made from broken off toenail of creator.
Primeval human pair spring from two drops of urine of creator (woman from half-drop).
First man the result of maid having licked semen-stained loin cloth of creator's teacher.
Primeval crab pulls first five living creatures out of his side.
Man created in creator's image.
Man originates from god who comes to earth.
Man as offspring of creator.
Mankind from masturbation of creator with earth.
Devil's unsuccessful attempt to vivify his creations as God has done.
Rebel angels oppose creation of man.
Man created by co-operation of the gods.
Progressive degeneration to present race of men.
Mankind from unusual primeval mating.
Mankind begotten by giant's two feet.
Mankind from "Peace and Quiet fructified by Light." Mankind from mating of pairs of reeds.
Mankind from mating of tree and vine.
Mankind from mating of frog and "daughter of fire." Mankind from human-animal mating.
Mankind originates from eggs.
Descent of man from animals.
Mankind is descended from marriage of human being and animal.
Mankind descended from tadpoles.
Mankind descended from worms or larvae.
Woman created from dog's tail.
Mankind born from a cow.
Descent of men from monkeys.
Men are monkeys who have lost their tails.
Mankind descended from fish.
Creation of man by creator from ants.
First men undeveloped.
First couple organically united.
Man originally without hands and feet.
Man given hands, feet, mouth and nose by monkey.
Man created after series of unsuccessful experiments.
Creator makes man out of butter first; it would not stand up and melted.
Different types of men produced from one original type.
First man descends from sky.
Mankind from featherless bird sent from sky.
Mankind ascends from under the earth.
Mankind from bones of dead brought from underworld.
Mankind emerges from lake.
Mankind emerges from water.
Mankind emerges from caves.
Mankind emerges from a pit.
Mankind emerges from ground.
Earth as virgin mother of Adam.
Primeval human pair spring from womb of Mother Earth.
Mankind emerges from mountain.
Spontaneous generation.
Earth gives birth to woman.
Mankind emerges from tree.
Mankind emerges from buds on trees.
Tribes emerge from melon.
Man made from clay (earth).
Man made from piece of clay thrown on ground.
Man made from sand sprinkled with water.
Man made from clay image and vivified.
Man made from earth reddened with blood of human sacrifice.
Man from clay and animal's blood.
Man made of earth brought from four different places.
Man created from stones.
New race from stones thrown over head after deluge.
Mankind from vivified stone image.
Mankind from cleft rock.
Mankind from salty stone (ice block) licked by cow.
Man born from mountains.
Mankind originates from shell.
Mankind originates from metals.
Creation of man from tree.
Creation of man from wood.
Mankind from vivified wooden image.
Creation of man from fruit (nut).
Creation of man from fruit.
Creation of man from fig.
First man born from apple.
Creation of man from nut.
Creation of woman from coconut.
Men from long nuts, women from short ones.
Man created from seeds.
New race from seeds thrown over head after deluge.
Man made from plant.
Man from sugar-cane stalks.
Man from ears of corn.
Man made from herb.
Man made from grass.
Man made from combination of different objects.
Man made of four elements.
Man made of substances from eight different sources.
Adam's body made of eight (four) things.
Seven substances employed in composition of human body.
Man made of clay with bones of stone, with blood of water and with vines for veins.
Man made from water.
Man created from sea-foam.
Man created from egg formed from sea-foam.
Man created from sweat.
Man created from sweat, heat, and breath.
Man created from part of body.
Man created from blood.
Man created from blood-clot.
Man from blood of game animal.
Man created from fingernail.
Man created from rubbings of skin.
Man created from spittle of holy person.
Man created from animal horns that bloomed and bore him as fruit.
Man created from culture hero's genitals.
Man created from animal bone.
Men created from sown dragon's teeth.
Man created from food.
Man made from meat-ball.
Man created from ashes (cinders).
Tribe born from fire.
Primeval human pair live in innocence.
Origin of first parents.
Sun, moon, and stars bring forth first parents.
Sun and moon beget stones and birds: these transformed to first parents.
First parents children of god.
First parents originate from gold which is from body of first man.
Twin first parents.
Incestuous first parents.
Creation of first man's (woman's) mate.
Creation of first woman from man's rib.
Deity creates princess from prince's body and gives her to him.
First man split in two to form mate.
Of ten original men one magically changes sex.
Creator makes woman and then begets man by her.
Man creates a woman from melted butter, sour milk, sour cream and curds offered on the waters.
First woman's mate made from transformed tree.
First man created from nothing wanders until he finds mate.
Why Eve was not made at first along with Adam.
First man descends on earth, falls in love with and marries a fairy.
First created man catches woman in his snare.
Man chosen as best gift by primeval women.
Offspring of first parents.
First parents devour offspring.
Primeval human pair allowed to bear all children they wish.
Son of first human couple murdered by tiger sent by god; his head becomes the sun, his chest the moon, and his blood gives the red earth
its color.
First man and woman bring in children and clothe them.
Primeval human pair--miscellaneous.
Of first parents husband so hideous he is kept hidden.
Condition of first man (woman).
First man covered with horny substance.
Man at first covered with hair.
Change of animal and human skin in ancient times.
Man at first naked.
Men originally self-luminous.
First man created circumcised.
Adam at first nameless.
Adam's name composed of initial letters of four stars from the four quarters of the heavens.
The mother of men.
Mother of the world gives birth to three sons.
Activities of first man.
First man made chief over whole world.
In response to Adam's prayer, God sends him to earth to be father of mankind.
Man created by supernatural creature, not deity.
Man created by angels.
Devil in God's absence puts sickness in Adam's body.
Creation in covered vessel.
Multiplication of man by fragmentation.
First human being killed by jealous brothers (reptiles and insects).
Men at first as large as giants.
Change in bodily form at fall of man.
Assembling the body.
Why men are clothed in skin.
Why women have marks on the belly.
Origin of hands and feet.
The lizard hand.
Why God changed right hand into left.
Origin of fingernails.
Origin of human skeleton.
Origin of knee-caps.
Why an uneven number of ribs.
Origin of sex-organs.
Origin of eunuchs.
Origin of sex differentiations.
Origin of male sex-organs.
Origin of female sex-organs.
Origin of clitoris.
Misplaced genitalia.
Vaginal teeth broken.
Origin of women's breasts.
Women at first with breasts on their foreheads.
Origin of placenta.
Origin of hair and beard.
Why men become gray-headed.
Origin of bald heads.
Origin of beard.
Origin of hair around mouth and eyes.
Origin of pubic hairs.
Origin of eyelashes.
Origin of facial features.
Man at first with two faces, separated at birth of first woman.
Distribution of noses.
Forming of the nose.
Why men blink.
Origin of eyes.
Distribution of eyes.
Why there are one-eyed women.
Men originally blind: eyes opened by accident.
Origin of ears.
Origin of tongue.
Origin of teeth.
Origin of urine and excreta.
Origin of other bodily attributes.
Origin of Adam's apple.
Why men lack tails.
Why ear-wax is inside the ear.
Why the posterior of man is large.
Origin of the liver.
Origin of blood.
Why the center of man's eye is black: blackened by spirits to make themselves invisible.
Origin of sweat.
Origin of sneezing.
Origin of itching.
Origin of the sensation of tickling.
Originally man rejuvenated himself by snake-like change of skin.
Why man does not change his skin: ancient contest lost by toad, representing man, won by lizard.
Why man's neck is its present size.
Origin of man's skin.
Men and animals readjust span of life.
Why children learn to walk later than animals.
Determination of relation between birth-rate and death-rate.
Long span of life for first man.
Short span of life for first men.
Why babies die so easily.
Paradise lost.
Paradise lost because of forbidden fruit (drink).
Paradise lost because of forbidden food.
Paradise lost because of brother-sister incest.
Paradise lost because first woman is seduced.
Confusion of tongues.
Confusion of tongues partly due to lack of understanding of difference between the word for "stick" and the word for "stone."
Origin of death.
Origin of death from falsified message.
Origin of death: wrong messenger goes to God.
Origin of death from bad creator's unsuccessful imitation.
Origin of death from unwise choice.
Origin of death when early people put on new skins.
Origin of death: serpent given immortality instead of man.
Origin of death: punishment for scorning deity.
Origin of death: disrespectful answer to God.
First son who died before his father after the Flood.
Origin of death because world is overpopulated.
Origin of death because people weary of living.
Death sent into the world by culture hero (God) when he got tired of man.
Men die because a snake comes to prey on mankind while creator rests.
God of world of the dead demands that men die so he will have subjects.
Death origin: God sends a woman to sell poisoned curds to man.
God sends centipede down to introduce death into the world through its poisoned sting.
Death comes into the world by treachery of the gods: stick used by man for scratching his back is changed into cobra.
God punishes man by killing his child: origin of death.
Origin of murder.
Origin of disease.
Disease caused by the gods.
Pestilence brought to man in box by messenger from creator.
Disease caused by ghosts.
Disease caused by witchcraft.
Disease caused by menstrual blood.
Disease as punishment.
Disease to prevent man enjoying himself too much.
Origin of sickness and misfortune: monstrous births from brother-sister incestuous union.
Origin of ulcers.
Origin of cholera.
Origin of epilepsy.
Origin of fever.
Origin of itch.
Origin of leprosy.
Origin of smallpox.
Origin of illness from fire and cold.
Origin of physical defects.
Origin of cripples.
Origin of blindness.
Origin of war among men.
Origin of battle-shouting.
Origin of duelling.
Origin of thefts and quarrels.
Origin of quarrelling.
Origin of lying.
Origin of tears and sighs.
The "three first cries that made their way to God": the cry of the blood of Abel, etc.
Origin of hunger.
Origin of thirst.
Man to earn bread by sweat of his brow.
Man must work as punishment for theft of fire.
Man must labor for a living: at first everything too easy.
Cotton at first already spun into threads.
First people have everything they wish (life without work).
Men are too happy: pain and sickness created.
Canoes at one time self-propelling.
Mankind's escape from trouble.
Wren helps mankind restore prosperity to the world.
Origin of childbirth.
Origin of childbirth pains.
Origin of abortions.
Origin of sexual intercourse.
Origin of unrestricted sexual intercourse between husband and wife.
Means of persuading persons to intercourse.
Former intercourse by navel.
Origin of menstruation.
Origin of menstruation--Eve and the serpent.
Origin of menstruation: punishment because Eve ate forbidden fruit.
Origin of menstruation--Virgin Mary's garment.
Previously men menstruated.
Culture hero teaches women how to rear their children.
Origin of sterility among women.
Why children are helpless for so long.
Why a lad at puberty is energetic and later lazy.
Why women are bad.
Bad women because of head exchanged with devil.
Bad women combination of nine different animals.
Bad women from transformed hog and goose.
Origin of other special characteristics of women.
Why women are prattlers.
Why women laugh much.
Why women are roving.
Why women have a treble voice.
Why women are deceitful.
Why some women are good-looking.
Origin of pleasant and unpleasant women.
Why women never have leisure.
Why women are subservient to men.
Why women keep washing themselves.
Why women attract men.
Why good-looking but soft, useless women attract men.
Origin of jealousy and selfishness.
Why some married people quarrel and accuse each other of infidelity.
Why man excels woman.
Origin of laziness.
Origin of bravery.
Why people do not fear earthquakes.
Origin of fear.
Why man is fearful in the jungle.
Origin of shame for nakedness.
Shame for nakedness appears to first woman.
Origin of evil inclinations.
Origin of evil inclinations: punishment for fall of man.
Evil inclination enters body at time of conception.
Origin of drunkenness.
Origin of hatred.
Hate released among mankind.
Why other members must serve belly.
Why all limbs are dependent on body.
First walk by Adam.
Men live by the breath of the gods.
Ordaining of human life--additional motifs.
Origin of laughter.
Origin of dreams.
Origin of sleep.
Origin of spitting.
Origin of coughing.
Culture originated by previous race of men.
The gods build houses, and fashion tools.
God teaches people to work.
Gods teach people all they know.
Culture originated by ancestor of tribes.
Theft of light.
Light kept in box (basket).
Theft of light by being swallowed and reborn.
Origin of light--miscellaneous.
Light originated from shield of old cobra supporting the earth.
Origin of light: souls of dead in heaven.
Acquisition of daylight by culture hero.
Origin of fire.
Origin of fire--rubbing sticks.
Fire drill invented.
Origin of fire--found in person's own body.
Origin of fire--children strike rocks together, accidentally produce fire.
Origin of fire--gift from god (supernatural person).
Origin of flint and tinder.
Bird as guardian of primordial fire.
Repository of fire.
Tree as repository of fire.
Rock as repository of fire.
Cave as repository of fire.
Theft of fire.
Fire witheld from men as punishment.
Original fire property of one person (animal).
Fire stolen in hollow reed.
Fire carried from heaven in fingernails.
Theft of fire by animals.
Theft of fire by bird.
Theft of fire--trick exchange.
Vain attempts to circumvent theft of fire.
Country ridded of ogres and made peaceful.
Theft of tablets of fate.
Origin of food from body of slain food-goddess.
Gods teach how to seek and prepare food.
Creator of food items.
Food originally obtained without effort.
After Fall first parents fed and clothed from one palm-tree.
At beginning people start to eat the earth.
Hoarded game released.
Hoarded rice made available once more to men by culture hero.
Man given dominion over beasts.
Man rules all animals.
Assignment of edible animals.
Animals sources of food because they were once unfaithful, disobedient wives of a visitor from god-country.
What animals are to be eaten by man.
Why men may eat hares.
Why Santals eat entrails of hare.
Why Birhors eat flesh of monkeys and baboons.
Why the wild boar is hunted by man for food: once a faithless wife killed by her husband.
Acquisition of vegetables and cereals.
Hoarded plants released.
Origin of yams (sweet potatoes, taro).
Acquisition of rice.
Origin of coconut.
Acquisition of manioc.
Origin of seed.
Hoarded seeds.
All the kinds of seed in a bamboo that culture hero cuts down.
Acquisition of food supply--miscellaneous.
Discovery of oil.
Acquisition of ale.
Introduction of brewing.
Origin of rice-beer.
Acquisition of spiritous liquors.
Liquor discovered when birds get drunk.
Liquor discovered by rain-god.
Intoxicating drink first used at the wedding feast of the first couple.
Creator gives liquor to his servant giant to drink.
Acquisition of brandy.
Origin of whiskey.
Acquisition of wine.
Acquisition of food supply--miscellaneous.
Discovery of oil (edible).
Origin of yeast: wasp stole it from the old woman underneath the earth.
Acquisition of water.
First wells dug.
Gods provide drinkable water.
Acquisition of salt.
Origin of coal.
Acquisition of metals.
Origin of iron.
Iron at first was made for food, not for weapons.
Acquisition of gold.
Gold comes from gourd received from fishes.
Acquisition of brass.
Acquisition of copper.
Acquisition of money.
First money received from kettle which two dead men try in vain to carry from hell to heaven.
Origin of gold coins.
Origin of silver coins.
Silver coins from pumpkin received from fishes.
Origin of shell money.
Acquisition of habitations.
Origin of cave-digging.
Acquisition of guest-houses.
Origin of raths (duns, stone forts).
Raths marked out with brooch.
Origin of grass huts to replace caves as dwellings.
Acquisition of vehicles.
Acquisition of clothing.
Origin of medicine (healing).
Origin of medicine: shaman sent down by the Creator equipped with it.
Acquisition of other necessities.
Acquisition of marble.
Origin of dyes.
Origin of rubber S. Am. Indian Origin of cauldrons.
Assignment of crafts and professions: creator opens shop and from it distributes plough, pen, bottle, pair of scales, fishing-net and
loom to various groups.
Origin of distribution of work.
Patriarchs because of long life made inventions.
Acquisition of agriculture.
Origin of plowing.
Origin of custom of yoking oxen.
Origin of water wheel and rice growing.
Origin of sowing and planting.
Origin of periodic sowing.
Origin of onion-growing.
Origin of milling.
Origin of domestication of animals.
First shepherder.
Acquisition of building crafts.
Origin of boat-building.
Origin of carpentry.
Why carpenters are found everywhere: flood scatters them on raft over world.
Man learns housebuilding from wasp.
Acquisition of tools.
Culture hero steals tools for men.
Origin of the saw.
Origin of the axe.
Origin of the ox-goad.
Origin of the adze.
Acquisition of household implements.
Origin of the broom.
Origin of the pestle.
Origin of the grindstone.
Origin of the winnowing-fan.
Origin of baskets.
Origin of the oil-press.
Origin of metal-working.
Origin of the bellows.
Origin of blacksmith work.
Origin of goldsmith work.
Origin of smelting.
Origin of mining.
Origin of pottery.
Origin of charcoal making.
Origin of cloth-making.
Origin of spinning.
Origin of weaving.
Origin of dyeing.
Origin of leaf-dress.
Origin of bark-cloth.
Creator paints on clay models of men clothes that they are to wear.
Origin of raffia cloth.
Origin of shoemaking.
Origin of cooking.
Origin of the domestic hearth.
Origin of distilling.
Origin of fishing.
Origin of the fish hook.
Origin of custom of catching fish by day as well as by night.
Origin of the net for fishing.
Origin of fishing stations.
Origin of fish-traps.
Origin of fish ponds.
Origin of hunting.
Origin of pitfall.
Acquisition of crafts--miscellaneous.
Acquisition of weapons.
Origin of bows and arrows.
Introduction of broad-headed spears into Leinster.
Origin of obsidian-tipped spears.
Origin of sling-stones.
Invention of gai bulga.
Origin of horse-whips.
Acquisition of seamanship (sailing, etc.).
Acquisition of sorcery.
Arts taught man by angel.
Acquisition of music.
Origin of violin.
Origin of lyre.
Origin of harp.
Origin of organ.
Origin of the use of the rattle.
Origin of whistle.
Origin of shepherd's pipe.
Origin of nose-flute.
Origin of dancing.
Origin of literary arts.
Acquisition of poetry.
First poetry composed in imitation of tones of hammer on anvil.
Origin of hymn.
Origin of particular song.
Origin of satire.
Origin of decorative art.
Origin of tattooing.
Origin of embroidery.
Origin of ornaments.
Origin of gadaba ornaments.
Origin of designs on cloth.
Origin of metal ornaments.
Origin of polishing stone.
Origin of wood carving.
Origin of masks.
Origin of church bells.
First church bell built on model of bluebell.
Origin of games of skill (indoor).
Invention of chess game.
Origin of commerce.
Origin of trade between two places.
Origin of weights and measures.
Beginning of division of labor.
Division of labor: religious and lay activities.
Origin of slavery.
Origin of human wisdom.
Origin of language.
Hebrew the language of the inhabitants of heaven.
Origin of reading and writing.
Origin of ogam inscriptions.
Origin of alphabet.
How people learned about calculating time and the seasons.
Origin of sciences.
Origin of astronomy.
Origin of astrology.
Origin of medical books.
Origin of art of walking on stilts.
Origin of outdoor games.
Origin of ball game.
Tribal customs established by diviner.
All customs for the year established.
Creator gives men customs and songs before their emergence.
Origin of time for meals.
Mealtimes from confused message from God.
Origin of custom of not eating in the dark: devil eats from plates.
Origin of compulsory drinking at feast.
Origin of drinking ceremonies.
Origin of custom of eating certain animals.
Origin of custom of eating flesh of buffalo.
Origin of cannibalism.
Origin of eating tabus.
Why food is cooked.
Origin of customs: game-division.
Why Indians cache their meat.
Custom of catching fish with nets.
Why one presents stranger with first fish caught.
Origin of peace ceremonies.
Origin of "guesting." Acquisition of guest-houses.
Origin of secular feasts.
Origin of the potlatch.
Origin of games and fairs.
Origin of games (fair) at Telltown (Tailtiu).
Origin of feast of Tara.
Festival of Beltane.
Origin of horse-racing.
Origin of social etiquette.
Origin of wishing long life to person who sneezes.
Origin of social ceremonials--miscellaneous.
Origin of seating arrangements in royal hall.
Origin of religious feasts and fasts.
Origin of feast for the dead.
Origin of grave-digging Irish myth: Cross.
Communion feast to placate dead.
Origin of feasts in honor of certain god (goddess).
Origin of feast for Zise.
Origin of Hallowe'en.
Origin of Hallowe'en as a mystic night.
Origin of Sabbath.
Holy day established on seventh day.
Origin of Sabbath from a feast to Venus.
Origin of dragon festival.
Origin of passover.
Origin of Pentecost.
Origin of religious fasts.
Origin of religious dances.
Origin of particular manner of dancing.
Origin of particular dance.
Origin of crocodile dance.
Origin of religious songs (chants).
Origin of the death chant.
Origin of religious images (idols).
Why Jews do not worship idols.
Origin of sacrifices.
Regulations for sacrifices.
Animal substituted for human sacrifice.
Origin of animal sacrifices.
Origin of dog sacrifices.
Origin of calf sacrifices.
Origin of cock sacrifice.
Custom of sacrifice begun at harvest and sowing times.
Origin of human sacrifice.
Origin of the custom of wife self-sacrifice (suttee).
Why animal bones only are used in sacrifice.
Origin of worship.
Origin of symbols of worship.
Origin of prayers.
Origin of calf-statues in temples.
Origin of worship of rivers.
Origin of worship of particular god(s).
Origin of Christian worship.
First convert to Christianity in Ireland.
First monk, first pilgrim.
Origin of Jewish worship.
Origin of worship from holy books.
Origin of fire worship.
Origin of animal worship.
Origin of crocodile worship.
Origin of funeral customs.
Origin of funeral sacrifices.
Origin of lute-playing at funerals.
Origin of lamentations for the dead.
Origin of tithing.
Origin of religious ceremonials--miscellaneous.
Origin of commemorative religious meal (to memorialize death or actions of ancestor or holy person).
Origin of sundry religious ceremonials Origin of religious games.
Origin of penance for sin.
Why women do not woo.
Marriage between close relatives.
Why brothers and sisters do not marry.
Origin of royal marriages with close relatives.
Brother-sister marriage of children of first parents.
Origin of exogamy and endogamy.
Origin of exogamy.
Origin of love-songs.
Origin of marriage.
Origin of wedding ceremony.
Origin of custom of throwing fruits on bridal couple.
Origin of custom of purchasing wives.
Why umbrellas are used to welcome bride to new home.
Origin of sexual restrictions.
Beginning of law against rape.
Origin of celibacy.
Origin of adultery.
Origin of decrying female sinners.
Origin of jus primae noctis.
Why woman is master of her husband.
Origin of divorce.
Origin of customs of courtship and marriage--miscellaneous.
Origin of the village dormitory.
Origin of medical treatment during pregnancy.
Origin of charms for pregnant women.
Origin of diet during confinement.
Parents learn how to wean their children.
Origin of circumcision.
Why dust is strewn on wound at circumcision.
Origin of code of conduct between husband and wife.
Why husband and wife shall not exchange hats.
Origin of relation of mother and children.
Why a mother has prior claim on her children.
Origin of code of conduct for parents toward children of polygamous marriage.
Origin of personal names.
Adam named from first letters of four stars.
Origin of family insignia.
Origin of family crests.
Origin of regulation within the family--miscellaneous.
Why children are not left alone in the house to sleep.
Origin of justice.
First judgment in Ireland.
Laws given directly by deity.
Origin of special penalties.
Origin of penalty for murder.
Origin of penalty for theft.
Origin of government.
Origin of kingdom.
Origin of laws: division of property in a family.
First surety.
Origin of tabus.
Tabus instituted by God or creator.
Tabus instituted by culture hero.
Origin of laws--miscellaneous.
Why women are disqualified as witness in court.
Origin of burial.
Burial learned from watching raven bury its dead.
Origin of cremation.
Why men no longer know time of death.
Origin of physicians.
Establishment of doctor's fees.
Origin of tattooing.
Origin of army.
Origin of custom of paying soldiers.
Origin of custom of wearing a beard.
First men without beards: Cain, Abel.
Origin of custom of shaving.
Origin of customs of hospitality.
Origin of additional customs.
Origin of warning beacon.
Origin of erection of monuments to mark boundaries.
Why women wear veils in India.
Why the face must be wiped dry after washing.
Why in addressing anyone the second plural should be used.
Why earthworms are killed whenever earth is dug.
Why dagger must be always cleaned on the inside of the robe.
Inequalities of fortune among men, otherwise the work of the world will not go on.
Origin of custom of committing suicide by strangling.
Origin of witchcraft.
Origin of quarrels.
Origin of war.
Origin of covenanted friendships.
Why certain caste is kind to animals.
Why a lamp must be lighted in a house at least every fortnight.
Origin of begging.
Origin of allusive expression for the story of gods' incest and trickery.
Number of nations of the world Unworthy origin ascribed to hostile tribes.
Foreigners heads exchanged with those of devils in fight.
Couples placed to establish tribes.
Origin of races from mixed offspring of animal marriage.
Tribes from fruits of various trees.
Different tribes result from choice of things Sun offers people.
Tribes from clay models made by creator.
Origin of particular tribes.
Origin of American Indian tribes.
Origin of the Ojibwa.
Origin of Eskimo.
Origin of Gypsies.
Origin of various African tribes.
Origin of Bushmen.
Origin of various tribes of India.
Origin of various European peoples.
Origin of Greeks.
Origin of Italians.
Origin of Germans.
Origin of Celts.
Origin of women in Ireland.
Origin of the Maic Milid (Milesians, Gaels).
Origin of the Tuatha Dй Danann regarded as an early tribe.
Origin of various Near Eastern peoples.
Origin of white and colored races.
Negroes as curse on Ham for laughing at Noah's nakedness.
Origin of luchrupain (leprechauns, dwarfs, pygmies) from curses of Ham.
Origin of "goat-heads" from curse of Ham.
Races dark-skinned from bathing after white men.
Light and dark-skinned peoples made from light and dark coconuts.
Origin of tribes from choices made.
Origin of tribes from kinds of meat they choose.
Origin of race colors from eating of ox.
Origin of different peoples according to choice of chairs.
Origin of different peoples according to choice of bows and arrows or else guns, horses and cattle.
Negroes made from left-over scraps at creation.
Origin of light and dark skin color.
Indians and whites from different legs of first man.
Black tribe because woman is put on fire.
Origin of white man.
Origin of particular languages.
Cold before theft of fire impedes speech: explanation of difficulty of certain languages.
Origin of Irish language.
Origin of place-name.
Origin of inequalities among men.
Reasons for difference in population sizes in different areas.
Emergence of tribe from lower world.
Emergence of tribe from lower world stopped by fat woman or pregnant woman who becomes lodged in the hole of egress.
Tribe climbs down from sky to earth.
Characteristics of tribal subdivisions.
The various children of Eve.
Custom of differentiating social classes by color of dress introduced.
Origin of different trades.
Why some men are good basket-makers.
How God distributed professions: according to the bodily appearance of men.
Origin of castes.
Attitude to untouchables.
Origin of castes from instructions received in dream.
Caste determined by what kind of tree one catches while crossing a river.
Origin of royalty.
Origin of kings (from god(s)).
Origin of a king's family from a fairy prince.
Origin of priesthood (shamanism, etc.) Origin of priests.
Origin of diviners.
Origin of peasantry.
Why peasant is always busy: he is eager to produce food for all living beings.
Origin of noblemen.
Origin of Polish noblemen: from wheat dough that a bitch devours.
Origin of slaves.
Origin of subject tribes (aithech-thuatha).
Origin of the Fir Bolg ("Men of the Sacks"); so-called because as slaves they were forced to carry earth in sacks (builg).
Origin of professional warriors.
Origin of fiana (bands of professional warriors).
Origin of different classes--miscellaneous.
Origin of the Fomorians (giants).
Fomorians descended from Ham (or Cain).
Hair and beard of various peoples.
How the white man got his beard.
Why the white man has short hair.
Why Canaanites have curly hair.
Peculiar smell of body.
Why Jews smell bad.
Heads of various people.
Why Babylonians are round headed.
Beauty of various peoples.
Feet of various peoples.
Why Africans have bad feet.
Eyes of various peoples.
Why Canaanites have red eyes.
Why Palmyrenes have narrow eyes.
Intelligence of various people.
Why Europeans know more than natives.
Tribal characteristics--labor.
Why the negro works.
Tribal characteristics--industry.
Why the Haidas surpass in certain industries.
Tribal characteristics--stealing.
Why it is not a sin for a Gypsy to steal: helpful at crucifixion.
Why Russians like thefts and robberies.
Tribal characteristics--warfare.
Tribal characteristics--bravery or cowardice.
Why the Chittagongs are not as brave as they used to be.
Tribal characteristics--eating.
Why Indians chew spruce gum.
Why Jews do not eat pork.
Why the Muria eat snakes.
Why the Agaria eat rats.
Tribal characteristics--dress.
Why Russians wear their shirts outside their breeches.
Why Russians wear red shirts.
Why a certain tribe wear clothes like dogs (supposed descendants of a bitch mother).
Origin of custom of wearing mantles.
Why certain peoples go nude.
Why Canaanites go nude.
Why certain peoples wear only loincloths.
Tribal characteristics--decoration.
Why Zuсi girls rub flour on their faces as they grind.
Other origins and originators.
Why Bhuiya yoke the cow and the bullock together to the plough.
Why Agaria are not afraid of fire.
Why the Gond and Baiga are omnivorous.
Why Saora wave axes and swords and shout while dancing.
Why the Kamar offer liquor to gods and spirits.
Why Jews read and write from right to left: because of the ugly name of the king of the Jews.
Origin of the Russian calendar.
Why Chapperbands coin false money for a living.
Why Chenchu women are ugly.
Why the Agaria are cultivators.
Why one people is superior in power to another.
English more powerful than Hindus since latter were late at distribution of qualities.
Why Egyptians are fond of asses.
Why Jews keep aloof from other peoples.
Differentiation between "free" (saer) and "unfree" (daer).
Creation of animals by God.
Creation of animals by creator.
Culture hero creates useful animals.
All animals created in couples.
Animals created to serve man.
Animals from transformations after deluge or world calamity.
Creator sent for water: Meantime animals assume present forms.
Animals from various transformed objects.
Animals from transformed cloth.
Animals from bark thrown on ground.
Animals created from earth.
Buffaloes emerge from earth, the first man holding the tail of last one.
Animals from transformed man.
Animals from Pharaoh's drowned army.
Animals from men transformed for discourtesy to God (Jesus).
Seven whistlers are the souls of the Jews who crucified Christ.
Animals from transformed men according to favorite food.
Animals from transformed survivors of shipwreck.
Animals from transformed ogre or giant.
Animals from different parts of body of slain giant.
Animals from transformed parts of the body (animal or human).
Animals from body of slain person.
Animals from severed fingers of woman.
Animals from transformed hair.
All living things from Jesus' spattered blood.
Animals from parts of body of deity or saint.
Animals from spittle of deity (saint).
Animals from body dirt of deity (hero).
Primordial animal mutilated to produce present form.
Creation of animals as punishment for beating forbidden drum.
Creation of animals to take revenge.
Creation of animals as punishment for incest.
Animals from frogs sent as one of Egypt's plagues.
The devil's animals and God's.
Mouse created by Lucifer; cat by Michael to destroy mouse.
Devil's unsuccessful creation produces certain animals.
Devil produces animals only in God's name.
Dualism of animal creation.
Animals created while god Mahadeo quarrels with his wife.
Animals from mating of sun and moon.
Animals born from primeval mating of snake and person.
Giant ox ancestor of all animals.
Animals vomited up by creator.
Animals emerge from tree.
Animals drop from clouds.
Creation of cat.
Cat from transformed eagle.
Creation of cat: sneezed from lion's nostrils.
Cat of divine origin; is really praying when he purrs.
Creation of tiger.
Creation of jaguar.
Creation of otter.
Creation of sea otter.
Creation of marten.
Creation of dog.
Dog created as watch-dog for Jesus.
First lapdog in Ireland.
Creation of fox.
Creation of wolf.
Devil makes wolf; God gives him life.
Wolf from man transformed by magician.
Wolf as God's dog.
Creation of coyote and other canidae.
Creation of coyote.
Creation of jackal.
Creation of hyena.
Creation of bear.
Origin of seal.
Origin of walrus.
Creation of mouse.
Creation of mouse by devil in ark.
Mice engendered after flood from rottenness: no mice on ark.
Creation of rat.
Why we have rats: one escapes from slaughter of rats.
Creation of hare (rabbit).
Creation of mongoose.
Creation of porcupine.
Creation of monkey.
Monkeys from children hidden by Eve when God visited her.
Creation of monkeys: old woman thrown into fire.
Creation of monkey: lazy man.
Creation of ape.
Creation of baboon.
Creation of hog (pig).
God's urine used to make pig.
Origin of wild boar.
Origin of peccary.
Creation of hippopotamus.
Creation of camel.
Origin of deer.
First deer in Ireland--introduced by Tuatha Dй Danann.
Origin of reindeer.
Creation of moose (elk).
Creation of caribou.
Creation of cow.
First cattle in Ireland.
Creation of bison (buffalo).
Origin of wild and domestic buffalo.
Creation of horse.
Horse lives from time of Adam on.
Creation of white horse.
Creation of ass.
Creation of ass: proud horse.
Creation of sheep.
First sheep in Ireland.
Creation of mountain sheep.
Creation of goat.
Creation of elephant.
Creation of ungulata--miscellaneous.
Creation of tapir.
Creation of mole.
Creation of bat.
Creation of anteater.
Creation of armadillo.
Creation of birds.
Various birds from Pharaoh's drowned army.
God makes birds, devil reptiles.
The oldest bird.
Creation of lark.
Creation of thrush (nightingale).
Creation of thrush.
Creation of nightingale.
Creation of robin.
Creation of swallow.
Creation of titmouse.
Creation of crow (raven).
Creation of jay.
Creation of magpie.
Creation of blackbird.
Creation of finch.
Creation of sparrow.
Creation of myna (bird).
Creation of vulture.
Creation of hawk.
Creation of kite.
Creation of plover (known as seven whistlers).
Origin of snipe.
Snipe from man admitted neither to heaven nor to hell.
Creation of sandpiper.
Creation of sandpiper: Pharaoh's cook calls drowned army to dinner.
Creation of gull.
Gull from transformed cat.
Gull a transformed ravished maiden.
Creation of quail.
Creation of pigeon.
Creation of sea pigeon.
Creation of dove.
Creation of the kingfisher.
Creation of hoopoe.
Creation of woodpecker.
Woodpecker from devil's herdsman transformed.
Creation of owl.
The owl is a baker's daughter who objected to the size of the dough put into the oven for Jesus when he appeared in her house as a
beggar.
Creation of bittern.
Bittern from Pilate transformed.
Bittern from transformed shepherd.
Creation of stork.
Creation of diver (bird).
Origin of swan.
Origin of swans from two fowls fed in Urd's well.
Creation of duck.
Creation of chicken.
Creation of crane.
Creation of cuckoo.
Cuckoo a transformed baker.
Creation of parrot.
Creation of peacock.
Creation of papiha.
Insects from body of slain monster.
Insects from brains, blood, and bones of slain helpful animal.
Origin of insects from various experiences of saint.
The god Mahadeo turns wood chips into insects.
Origin of insects: released from sack.
Insects from devil's post-hole.
Origin of insects: God throws sand on lazy shepherds.
Origin of insects: monstrous births from brother-sister incest.
Creation of ant.
Creation of ant by devil.
Creation of ant: avaricious man transformed.
Creation of bee.
Creation of honey-bees: transformed man.
Creation of bee to provide wax for candles in church.
First bees in Ireland.
God sends stinging bees to punish men.
Creation of hornet.
Creation of beetle.
Beetle's special sacredness.
Creation of fly.
Creation of fly: punishment for laziness.
Flies on the ark.
Creation of flea.
Creation of flea: punishment for laziness.
Creation of flea: to give women work.
Origin of flea: from squirrel.
Creation of flea: God plagues the devil with fleas.
Creation of gnat.
Gnats created by devil to worry God.
Origin of gnats in Lapland.
Origin of mosquitoes.
Deity's wife creates mosquitoes to drive her husband out of jungle.
Mosquitoes created by goddess to make sleeping outside impossible to men.
Deity creates mosquitoes to irritate other gods.
Mosquitoes from bones of slain demon flung into the air.
Mosquitoes from ashes of bad woman.
Creation of butterfly.
Creation of louse.
Louse created to give women work.
Creation of bugs.
Creation of maggots.
Creation of cockroach.
Origin of cockroach in Finland.
Origin of locust.
Creation of cricket.
Creation of grasshopper.
Origin of spider.
Arachne transformed to spider: vies with goddess in spinning.
Origin of scorpion.
Origin of leaf-scorpion.
Origin of mantis.
Creation of fireflies.
Creation of lac insects.
Creation of pike.
Creation of mullet.
Origin of olachen.
Creation of mackerel.
Origin of bonito.
Origin of salmon.
Origin of flounder.
Origin of flounder from Virgin Mary's half-eaten fish.
Origin of sole.
Origin of catfish.
Creation of prawns.
Origin of whale.
Origin of narwhal.
Creation of leviathan.
Creation of sharks: from a savage tribe.
Creation of snake (serpent).
Origin of horned serpent.
Snake from blood of slain monster.
Snake preserved in ark: to stop hole with tail.
Snake created to suck poison from earth.
Snake from devil's slaver.
Adder harmful to holy person transformed to blindworm.
Creation of crocodile.
Creation of tortoise (turtle).
Creation of lizard.
Creation of chameleon.
Origin of salamander.
Origin of toad.
Origin of frog.
Origin of crustaceans.
Origin of crayfish.
Crayfish from devil's fleas shaken off in water.
Creation of crab.
Origin of lobster.
Origin of shrimp.
Origin of snail.
Origin of worm.
Origin of silkworm.
Origin of leech.
Origin of earth-worm.
Origin of cutworm.
Origin of multipede.
All qualities of animals appear with their creation.
Animal characteristics: accidental action of ancient animal.
Lynx views country from mountainside: cause of his squint.
Rabbit laughs: cause of hare-lip.
Wolf falls out of nest: cause of straight back.
Why some whales die on land: first whale did so.
Shrew blows nose into snout.
Spider carries large stone on head and drops it: hence spiders under stones.
Birds cling to sky in flood: cause of tail colors.
Lizard dips head in palm-oil: cause of red head.
Lizard swallows fish bone: hence head bobs up and down.
Tortoise left out in rain: hard shell develops.
How rattlesnake became harmful: earthworm feeds him chili pepper.
Buffalo helps tiger quench fire: white mark left on buffalo's neck where tiger held on while being ducked in water.
Stag defeated by snail vomits his gall-bladder.
Rat defecates on octopus's head: origin of tubercles on head.
Goddess scatters pubic hairs on fish: why he has so many bones.
Animal characteristics from great fear.
Frightened rabbit puts head in charred tree: hence black ears.
Frightened animals scatter: cause of present habitat of each.
Animal characteristics from squeezing or stretching ancient animal.
Ancient animal squeezed: hence small size.
Animal pressed: hence facial or bodily marks.
Wildcat's (Lynx's) face mashed in.
Tortoise pressed into earth: hence humpy back.
Baboon pressed on hot, flat rock: hence bald place on his back.
Why lobster is shallow: insulted cattle step on it.
Animals' size increased by stretching.
Animal characteristics changed by stretching.
Coyote's muzzle pulled out long.
Fox's tail pulled out long.
Mouse's nose pulled out long.
Animal characteristics from being struck.
Mole struck on head in attempt to steal fire: hence his flat head.
Fish struck by coconut: hence flat tail.
Animal characteristics from dropping ancient animal from air.
Swallow thrown on his tail: cause of split tail.
Ant thrown from heaven: hence narrow waist.
Unicorn thrown from ark and drowned: hence no longer exists.
Crab thrown to ground: breaks into small pieces.
Tortoise hurled on rock: half falls on land, half in water.
Tortoise dropped by eagle: hence cracks in his shell.
Bat falls from high perch due to extreme heat of sun's rays, breaks bones, etc.
Animal characteristics from throwing members at ancient animal.
Stick (leaf) thrown at animal's rump: hence tails.
Hare runs away at creation; almost loses tail.
Bowl placed on turtle's back: hence his shell.
Red fruit thrown at rail's (bird's) head: hence red lump on head.
Fox struck with churn-dash: hence white tail.
God throws diver's feet after him; hence his feet reach backward.
Animal characteristics: members bitten or cut off.
Bear fishes through ice with tail: hence lacks tail.
Devil pulls off goats' tails: hence lack tails.
Moon splits hare's lip with hatchet: hence hare-lip.
Bush-rat bites off tortoise's tail: hence tortoise's short tail.
Hawk's tail cut in two by sword as he is being transformed.
God as falcon has tail cut off: hence falcon's short tail.
Formerly animals have ears like elephant's: hare bites them off.
Appearance of animal from marking or painting.
Birds painted their present colors.
Chipmunk's back scratched: hence his stripes.
Marks on certain fish from fingerprints.
Marks on certain fish from St. Peter's fingerprints.
Marks on certain fish from devil's fingerprints.
Animal characteristics from burning or singeing.
Raven caught in smoke-hole: hence is black.
Animal scorches self while putting out fire in land of fire, woe and darkness.
Jackal carries sun in bag on back; burns his back black.
Animal who steals fire scorched: cause of his color.
Coyote burnt when hay is set afire: hence yellow patch behind his ears.
Robin steals fire, has breast scorched.
Raven singes feet on hot stones: why its wings clap when it flies.
Rabbit burns self under chin when he steals an ember.
Eel burned by torch: hence red eyes.
Other accidents to ancient animal.
Animal has color spilled on him: cause of his color.
Cow swallows book; cause of maniplies in stomach.
Only one serpent had sting: fed poison to the rest.
Hedgehog's skin reward for good deed.
Animal characteristics reward for pious act.
Animals blessed for honoring infant Jesus.
Animals blessed for good services at crucifixion.
Flies on Christ's body rewarded.
Blood from cross on robin redbreast: He helps Jesus; rewarded with red breast.
Blood of scourged Christ on certain spiders.
Swallows lift Christ's crown of thorns from his brow: why their nests are not destroyed.
Swallows put on mourning at crucifixion: have never taken it off.
Crossbill, attempting to draw thorn from the crown of thorns, twists bill in the attempt.
Markings on animals as recollections of Christ's life and sufferings.
Ant collects incense and myrrh for Christ: grows thin in middle.
Animal blessed for helping holy fugitive.
Ox helps patriarch who in joy kisses him on the lips: hence no hair on ox's lips.
Animal blessed for obedience to deity.
Bird coloring as reward for obedience to deity.
Dove returns to ark in obedience to Noah: receives sheen of raven.
Squirrel's markings and immunity from falling as reward by deity.
Why sheep walk with bowed heads: they have remained so after having bowed to God.
Sheep helpful to the Lord: get wool.
Deity rewards animal for bringing him water: cause of present characteristics.
Animal characteristics reward for hospitality.
Thrush's hospitality to peacock rewarded by being given motley coat of feathers.
Animal characteristics reward for helpfulness.
Cat helps man build house: may occupy chimney corner.
Bird carries deity (his daughter) home from land of skulls: given brilliant plumage.
Mouse gathers rice for man: may eat a little of his rice daily.
Pike helps Christ cross stream: made king of fishes.
Dog guards master's life and wealth: may eat before other animals.
Tortoise given hard shell when it ferries rice-goddess across stream.
Ravens show Adam how to bury dead: are born with white feathers.
Chameleon saves hero's life: may change color.
Animal characteristics as reward--miscellaneous.
Dog rescues cow's teats from fire: origin of his black muzzle.
Dog lets devil into church to steal: rewarded with dog-skin.
Owl will not betray curate: therefore may live in steeple.
Fly steals fire from spider: may eat everywhere.
Cuckoo delivers other birds from their cruel king: they agree to hatch out cuckoo's young.
Bird has red spot on its tail as reward for having moved woman's organ to its present position.
Animal characteristics: punishment for impiety.
Animal characteristics: punishment for discourteous answer to God (saint).
Discourteous answer: why cow (horse) is always eating.
Discourteous answer: flounder's crooked mouth.
Discourteous answer: why crab has eyes behind.
Discourteous answer: tortoise's shell.
Animal characteristics: punishment for hostility at crucifixion.
Crane will not weep at crucifixion: must suffer thirst in August and break bills.
Swallows torment Christ on cross: lose voice.
Animal characteristics: punishment for working on holy day.
Cuckoo builds nest on Annunciation Day: has no nest.
Bees work on Sabbath: may not get honey from red clover.
Frog fails to honor infant Jesus: loses tail.
Spider vies with Virgin Mary in spinning: cursed.
Spider steals thread from Christ: has thread in back of body.
Animal harmful to holy person cursed.
Animal cursed for betraying holy fugitive.
Beetle cursed for betraying Holy Family on way to Egypt; beetle now has its eyes always on the ground.
Animal cursed for refusing to carry holy fugitive across stream.
Tortoise cursed for going under water while ferrying rice-goddess: people will be able to kill it with iron-made spears.
Toad refuses to weep over its dead children: dries up when dead.
Fish in deluge deride God: are flattened with blow.
Crab beats deity's forbidden drum: eyes lift out of body.
Beetle demands return of gold from God: must hum.
Buffaloes fail to come at god's leavetaking: now are killed by tigers.
Loris refuse to look at sun who comes out when they are dancing: hence never looks at sun.
Animal characteristics: punishment for immoderate request.
Camel asks for horns: punishment, short ears.
Bees pray for sting: punishment, first sting suicidal.
Beetle makes immoderate request; ant moderate: inverse awards.
Griffin disdains to go on ark; drowned: hence extinct.
Animals ask for goddess's perfume: punishment, bad odor.
Birds who aspire to blackbird's coat punished.
Peacock given ugly feet so as to prevent too great arrogance.
Dog's embassy to Zeus chased forth; dogs seek ambassador: why dogs sniff each other under leg.
Ants ask God to give them wings: wind blows them away.
Raven attempts to imitate dove: punished with awkward gait.
Donkeys ask immediate reward from God: eat their own excrements.
Animal characteristics: punishment for laziness.
Animals refuse to help dig well (make road) and are punished.
Animals refuse to help dig well: may not drink from river or spring.
Snake refuses to help make road: dies on road.
Shrew refuses to help make road: dies on road.
Sloth refuses to help make road: may not look upon sun.
Dog will not help build house: must remain out of doors.
Too cold for hare (dog) to build house in winter, not necessary in summer: must go without house.
Owl as watchman goes to sleep: does not see by day.
Grasshopper builds no house for winter; ant strikes him blind: therefore born blind.
Bird neglects to build nest: goes without.
Animal characteristics: punishment for disobedience.
Raven does not return to Noah: must suffer thirst and break bill.
Raven does not return to ark in obedience to Noah: black color is resulting punishment.
Animals eat deity's forbidden fruit: punished.
Lemur looks where forbidden: has big eyes.
Hare weeps for mother when forbidden: moon hits him and cleaves lip.
Animal characteristics caused by animal's lateness at distribution of qualities.
Animal characteristics: punishment for planning man's downfall.
What creature has sweetest blood: gnat's tongue torn out.
Animal characteristics: punishment for carrying devil into paradise.
Snake carries devil into paradise: loses feet.
Peacock has snake carry devil into paradise: cursed with ugly voice and feet.
Animal punished for not warning of devil's temptation in Eden.
Magpie tells man he is to die next day: no tongue and long tail.
Animal punished for not heralding dawn.
Nit tries to bore through man's head: must remain at edge of hair.
Jay carries sulphur to devil in hell: must be quiet at noon.
Cat commanded to pray so as not to slay man: why cat purrs.
Animal characteristics punishment for meddling.
Animal reveals mistress's adultery: punished by master.
Animal characteristics: punishment for greed.
Rabbit (frog) eats seed-grain from fields: nose closed during sowing season.
Ring-dove eats man's grain: man may kill him.
Fish eat other fish: guilty must swim deep.
Diver eats nests of small birds: must not nest away from water.
Animal characteristics from miscellaneous punishments.
Hare punished for perjury: eyes deep in head.
Fly punished for failing to answer question: is speechless, buzzes and associates with foul things.
Ass betrays deity's secret: hence his ugly bray.
Owl reveals deity's secret: power of speech removed.
Woodpecker punished for stinginess.
Animals punished for assaulting women.
Ass has cross on shoulders from being struck by Balaam.
Crocodile is punished for trying to attack man he is carrying: has only half tongue.
Animal punished for hardheadedness (frog toothless, mole sightless).
Why mouse is crushed whenever she crosses a road: elephant's curse.
Why elephant hurts himself when running through the grass: mouse's curse.
Animal characteristics: borrowing and not returning.
Stag's horns borrowed from dog.
Owl's wings borrowed from rat (or other animal).
Partridge's voice borrowed from tortoise.
Cuckoo borrows food from other birds.
Nightingale borrows blindworm's eye.
Jay borrows cuckoo's skin.
Squirrel borrows coney's tail.
Boy borrows python's hands and feet: hence python lacks them.
Hornbill borrows tomtit's bill.
Beaver borrows muskrat's tail and never gives it back.
Monkey borrows tail from deer and refuses to return it.
Animal characteristics: obtaining for feast and not returning.
Animal characteristics: lending and refusing to receive back.
Spider hands box to ant and refuses to take it back: hence ants carry huge loads.
Animal characteristics: stolen from another animal.
Thrush steals woodcock's song.
Animal characteristics: exchange of qualities.
Buffalo and cow exchange hides: hence bad fitting hides.
Snake and turtle exchange head for fangs.
Rhinoceros exchanges his red hide for hippopotamus's black.
Dove and magpie exchange eggs--dove's seven for magpie's two: why dove has two eggs.
Toad trades his tail for mole's eyes.
Beaver and muskrat exchange tails.
Cock and ptarmigan in contest: winner to live in town.
Man and tiger in contest: winner to live in town.
Lizard wins contest with toad: why snakes and lizards change their skins.
Animal characteristics from contest in carrying.
Ant carries load as heavy as himself.
Animal characteristics determined by race.
Race of animals to see where each shall live.
Race of ox and horse: ox must labor.
Race of culture hero with ostrich: ostrich loses beautiful feathers.
Flounder complains in race: crooked mouth.
Animal characteristics from jumping contest.
Dog burned in jumping contest over fire: enmity between dog and hare.
Bird characteristics from flying contests.
Animal characteristics result of lawsuit.
Wool on his forehead awarded sheep in lawsuit.
Lizard loses lawsuit: must bob his head.
Animal characteristics from contest in watching.
Hare and man contest in watching for leaf to fall off tree.
Animal characteristics from duel.
Why tiger does not attack wild boar until latter is old: result of duel.
Animal characteristics: as a result of quarrel.
Animal characteristics from transformation of animal.
Shepherd transformed to bird still calls sheep: explanation of bird cries.
Spider transformed for greediness: now occupies dark corners.
Catfish transformed from woman still carries women's tatoo marks.
Catfish transformed from children still carry marks of children's knife holder.
Woodpecker transformed from stingy woman: therefore stingy.
Weeping man turned into owl; still bewails sorrows.
Snipe messenger for warriors because he was a messenger when a man.
Animal characteristics from transformation of implement (or other object).
Horse originally had eyes on feet: put out and became eyelike marks.
Pegs driven into backs of baboons become tails.
Serpent steals from God's coat a stick for his back.
Animal characteristics learned from another animal.
Thrush teaches dove to build nest.
Sparrow taught to sing by lark but not sufficiently: where sparrow got voice.
Animal characteristics: imitation of other animal or object.
Animal cries: imitation of sounds.
Nightingale hears boy call oxen: learns her song.
Cricket hears water hiss on hot iron: learns his song.
Garden warbler hears smith beat iron: learns his song.
Lizard's tail imitated from snake's.
Animal habit a reminiscence of former experience.
Animal cries a lament for person lost when animal was transformed.
Animal cries a lament over animal's transformation.
Animal cries reminiscent of former life as man.
Animal cries recall ancient adventure.
Green pigeon cheated out of its chick: is always mourning.
Animal's seeking attitude from ancient loss.
Hog loses pancake in mud: still seeks it.
Hawk (vulture) loses grandmother: still hovers and seeks her.
Bat, diver, and thornbush shipwrecked.
Dolphins seek King Solomon's ring.
Dog loses his patent right; seeks it: why dogs look at one another under the tail.
Son accidentally kills father, who returns to life as cuckoo and tells people when to sow grain.
Enmity between animals from original quarrel.
Cat loses dog's certificate: enmity between cats and dogs.
Cat garbles message from man to tiger: enmity between man and tiger.
Quarrel of dog and cat about which was higher caste.
Squirrel steals dog's needle: enmity between them.
Why cat and dog fight: dog ate up cat's part in master's reward.
Present habitat of animals result of ancient quarrel.
Two animals learn songs together--one successfully, the other unsuccessfully.
Origin of animal characteristics: animal persuaded into self-injury.
Animal persuaded to amputate limb: therefore lacks it.
Bustard persuaded to kill all but two children: has but two eggs.
Worm, thinking that world is coming to end, blinds self so as not to see calamity.
Elephant tricked into eating own testicles.
Coyote persuaded to break leg: therefore has thin right leg.
Jackal persuades hyena to jump and break foot.
Animal characteristics established by deity.
God makes serpent ugly.
Creation interrupted since God must go to a fire.
Animal characteristics because creator had not enough time to finish what he began.
Creation of hog incomplete since God has to go to a fire: cause of hog's round snout.
Animal characteristics result of contest between God and devil.
Devil's animals devour God's.
Devil gives horse four eyes; God reduces them to two.
Devil's cows one-horned; God makes them two-horned.
God changes color (tails) of devil's cows.
Jesus causes animal characteristics.
Jesus drives evil spirits into hogs: hence short snouts.
Jesus drives evil spirits into hogs: hence "toes" on back of foreleg.
Animal characteristics obtained during deluge.
Animal characteristics: change for convenience.
Wild animals lose their ferocity through fear of Behemoth.
Shape of bee's body.
Animal's body made larger.
Mouse's body made larger.
Spider's body made larger.
Coyote's body made larger.
Bat's body made larger.
Flying-squirrel's body made larger.
Animal's body made smaller.
Mouse's body made smaller.
Hazel-cock's body made smaller.
Squirrel's body made smaller.
Eagle's body made smaller.
Wolf's body made smaller.
Lice made smaller.
Origin of animal's flat body.
Origin of fish's flat body.
Origin of steel-head salmon's flat body.
Origin of flounder's flat body.
Why lobster is flat.
Why bedbug is flat.
Why animal is slippery.
Why eel is slippery.
Origin of animal's skin.
Origin of dog's skin.
Origin of cat's skin.
Origin of wolf's skin.
Origin of hedgehog's skin.
Origin of porcupine's skin.
Origin of cow's and buffalo's hides.
Why crocodile has rough skin.
Why frog has rough skin.
Why snakes and lizards change skins.
Origin of animal shell.
Origin of tortoise's shell.
Origin of cracks in tortoise's shell.
Origin of snail's shell.
Origin of dents in crab's shell.
Origin of bird's feathers.
Origin of cuckoo's feathers.
Origin of magpie's feathers.
Origin of peacock's feathers.
Origin of nkundak's feathers.
Why young ravens have white feathers.
Origin of fish's scales.
Origin of shell-fish's black scales.
Origin of alligator's scales.
Why certain animals are bare of covering.
Why swine's belly is bare.
Why fly is bald.
Why buzzard is bald.
Why crow's head is bald.
Why raven is bald.
Why magpie is bald.
Why vulture is bald.
Why bat is bald.
Why bird's feet are bare.
Why baboon has bare place on back.
Why john-crow has bald head.
Why opossum has bare tail.
Why kangaroo-rat's tail is not bushy.
Why jackal has bare tail.
Why rat's tail is round and without any hair.
How snake got small head.
Why weaver bird's head is small.
How turtle got snake-like head.
How lizard got red head.
Origin of mudhen's red head.
Why crab has no head.
Why bird's head is so large.
Why crocodile has marks of water pot on head.
Why palm-rat has swollen head.
Origin of bird crests.
Origin of goose's crest.
Origin of hoopoe's crest.
Origin of woodpecker's crest.
Origin of crested-lark's crest.
Origin of kingfisher's crest.
Origin of nkundak's crest.
Origin of buzzard's crest.
Origin of red lump on rail's head.
Origin of willow-grouse's crest.
Origin of cock's red crest.
Why the cock's comb becomes white when he is angry.
Origin of woodpecker's crest.
Origin of hair and mane.
How buffalo got hair under chin.
How zebra got its mane.
How goat got his beard.
How goat got his mane.
Why sheep may keep wool which grows on his forehead.
Why the gorilla and chimpanzee have hair all over the body.
Origin of animals' ears.
Why rabbit has long ears.
Why hare's ears are black.
Why ass has long ears.
Why camel has short ears.
Why zebra has long ears.
Why cat has jagged ears.
Why camel has no ears.
Why serpent has no ears.
Origin and nature of animal's horns.
How animals got horns.
How stag got antlers.
Why deer has antlers: as reward for not cheating.
How caribou got antlers.
How sheep got horns.
How ox got horns.
How goats got horns.
How horned-viper got horns.
Why some animals have no horns.
Why cats have no horns.
Why dog has no horns: they were stolen by deer (goat).
Originally cock had horns.
Nature of animal's horns.
Why cows have two horns.
How stag got long antlers.
Why antelope's antlers reach backward.
Why buffalo's horns are bent.
Why mountain-sheep's horns are close together.
How wildcat got his mashed face.
How lynx got his squint.
Why monkey's face is black.
Origin of marks on tiger's face.
Why flea's face is red.
Why pheasant's cheeks are red.
Why dove's head is marked as it is.
Why rail (bird) has red forehead.
Origin and nature of animals' eyes.
Origin of animals' eyes.
How mouse got his eyes.
How fly got his eyes.
How herring got his eyes.
How fox got his eyes.
Where owl got his eyes.
Number of animal's eyes.
Why horse has only two eyes.
Size of animals' eyes.
Why lemur has big eyes.
Why zabi's eyes are narrow: because he laughs so hard.
Why caribou has small eyes.
Shape and position of animal's eyes.
Why hare has deep-set eyes.
Why crab lifts eye out of body or has eye behind.
Why frog's eyes bulge out.
Color of animal's eyes.
Why coyote has yellowish eyes.
Why cuckoo has red eyes.
Why water-hen has red eyes.
Why toad has red eyes.
Why turkey has red eyes.
Why wooddove has green eyes.
Why wild duck has red eyes.
Why herring's eyes are red.
"Blindness" in animals.
Why blindworm has no eyes.
Why giant lizard is blind.
Why grasshopper is born blind.
Why worm is blind.
Why mole is blind.
Why owl is blind by day.
Why elephant sees half-blindly.
Why leech is blind.
Why bee is blind.
Origin and nature of animal's nasal organ (nose, snout, proboscis, etc.).
Origin of animal's nose.
Nature of animal's nose.
Why deer has white mark on nose.
Why lynx has short, blunt nose.
Why raven has nose marked as if it had been broken off.
Why hare's nose is closed during sowing season.
Why steer has no hair on his nose.
Origin and nature of animal's proboscis.
Origin of anteater's proboscis.
Why tapir has long nose.
Origin and nature of animal's snout (muzzle).
Why hog has short snout.
Why hog has round snout.
Why dog has black muzzle.
Why coyote has long muzzle.
Why the wolf's muzzle is black.
Why rat has long snout.
Origin and nature of animal's mouth.
Why flounder's mouth is crooked.
Why animal's mouth is large.
Why opossum's mouth is large.
Why zebra's mouth is large.
Why animal's mouth is closed.
Why serpent's mouth is closed.
Origin and nature of animal's lips.
Why hare's lip is split.
Why ox has no hair on his lips.
Origin and nature of bird's beak.
Origin of bird's long beak.
Where kingfisher got his long beak.
Where snipe got his long beak.
Why loon has big beak.
Where hornbill got his big beak.
Why bird's beak is colored.
Why parrot's beak is black.
Why toucan's beak is black.
Origin of other features of birds' beak.
Why starling's beak is split.
Why woodpecker has sharp beak.
Origin and nature of animal's tongue.
Why animal has short tongue.
Why crocodile has short tongue.
Why crocodile has half a tongue.
Why crocodile has no tongue.
Why alligator has short tongue.
Why animal has no tongue.
Why gnat has no tongue.
Why eel has no tongue.
Why swallow has no tongue.
Why titmouse has no tongue.
Why cormorant has no tongue.
Why magpie has no tongue.
Cause of color of animal's tongue.
Why sheep's tongue is black.
Origin and nature of animal's teeth.
Where horse got his upper teeth.
Where coyote got his long teeth.
Where reindeer got his small teeth.
Where walrus got his tusks.
Where snake got his fangs.
How elephant got its tusks.
Why animal lacks teeth.
Why cow has no upper teeth.
Why frog has no teeth.
Why caribou has no teeth.
Why hen has no teeth.
Why gorilla and chimpanzee have large teeth in mouth: punishment for neglecting possessions.
Origin and nature of insect's sting.
Why bees die after they sting.
Why bee's sting is no longer fatal to man.
Origin and nature of animal's neck.
Why camel's neck bends upwards.
Why eagle-owl's head turns on its neck.
Where Jahrvogel (rhytidoceros) got its necklace.
Origin of animal's long neck.
Origin of stork's long neck.
Why magpie has long neck.
Origin of antelope's long neck.
Why tortoise's neck is outstretched toward the sky: is looking for his wife, the star.
Where horse got arched neck: arches neck to kick tiger from rear; remains so.
Why munia wears his crop on the back of his neck.
Origin and nature of animal's breast.
Why apia (bird) is flat-chested.
Why robin has red breast.
Elephant loses its breasts.
Why bears do not have breasts for nursing.
Origin and nature of animal's belly.
Why flounder is flat-bellied.
Origin and nature of animal's waist.
Why animal has small waist.
Why spider has small waist.
Why ant has small waist.
Origin and nature of animal's back.
Origin of animal's back.
Origin of snake's back.
Origin of shape of animal's back.
Why frog has hunchback.
Why wolf has straight back.
Why cat has arched back.
Why certain fish have bowed backs.
Why water-hen has broad back.
Why bear has hump on back.
Why ass has cross on back (shoulders).
Why spider has thread in back of body.
Why tortoise has humpy back.
Why helldiver has flat stern.
Why alligator has rough back.
Why cow's body has hollow on one side.
Why camel has humped back.
Origin of color of animal's back.
Why eagle's back is brown.
Why jackal has black back.
Why wolverine has peculiar marks on back.
Why spider has markings on back.
Origin and nature of animal's buttocks.
Why monkey's buttocks are red.
Origin and nature of animal's teats.
Why cow has so few teats.
Origin and nature of animal's loins.
Why wolverine has red hair on loins.
Origin and nature of animal's genitals.
Nature of animal's testicles.
Why elephant has testicles inside.
Nature of animal's penis.
Why goat's and cat's members are as they are.
Why animal's penis is large (long).
Why horse's penis is long.
Why elephant's penis is large.
Why donkey's penis is large.
Animal characteristics: inside of body.
Animal characteristics: bones.
Why sucker has small bones in body.
Animal characteristics: internal markings.
Why grizzly bears have three stripes on inside of stomach.
Animal characteristics: blood.
Origin of serpent's blood and venom.
Origin and nature of animal's legs.
Origin of animal's legs.
Shape of animal's legs.
Why sheep has thin legs.
Why hog has "toes" on back of foreleg.
Why ravens have crooked legs and walk lame.
Why bears have short, crooked legs.
Why there is meat in front of the caribou's lower legs.
Why coyote's right leg is thin.
Why horse has eye-like marks on forelegs.
Why he-goat has shaggy legs.
Why diver (loon) holds legs backward.
Why kangaroo has short front legs.
Why hare has short pair of legs.
Why daddy-long-legs has long legs.
Why animal lacks legs.
Why snake has no legs.
Origin of color of animal's legs.
Why curlew has red legs.
Why fox's legs are black.
Origin and nature of animal's feet.
Where animal got feet.
Nature of animal's feet.
Why partridge has pretty feet.
Why peacock has ugly feet.
Why dog has hairy paws.
Why rabbits have soft pads on feet.
Why hyena has short left hind foot.
Why mole has hand like man.
Why mole's "hands" are turned backward.
Explanation of duck's feet.
Why toad has no thumbs.
Why the guinea fowl has red feet.
Animal characteristics: claws and hoofs.
Why cow has cloven hoof.
Why ass does not have cloven hoof.
Dog's claws as grains under paws.
Why porcupine has only four claws.
How crab got its claws.
Why crab has legs like teeth of a comb.
Animal characteristics: wings.
Why emu has no wings.
Origin and nature of animal's tail.
Why animals have tail.
Where baboon got tail.
Where rat got tail.
Where lizard got tail.
Where mole got tail.
Where squirrel got tail.
Where beaver got tail.
How dog got its tail.
How monkey got its tail.
How peacock got its tail.
Why animals lack tail.
Why quail has no tail.
How goats lost tails.
How frogs lost tails.
How bear lost tail.
Why hydrax has no tail.
How frog lost tail.
How toad lost tail.
Why flies lack tail.
Why animal has long tail.
How magpie got long tail.
How muskrat got long, thin tail.
How wolf got long tail.
Why fox has long tail.
Why animal has short tail.
Why hare has short tail.
Why bear has short tail.
Why marmot has short tail.
Why tortoise has short tail.
Why jackal's tail is short.
Why monkey has short tail.
Why crow has short tail.
Why animal has forked tail.
Why swallow has forked tail.
Why hawk has forked tail.
Why animal has bushy tail.
Why fox has bushy tail.
Why animal has flat tail.
Why beaver has flat tail.
Why magpie's tail is like a chisel.
Origin of color of animal's tail.
Why end of fox's tail is white.
Why end of fox's tail is black.
Why tail of West African grey parrot is red.
Why tip of weasel's tail is black.
Why tip of ermine's tail is black.
Why minivet has red tail.
Why swallow has black feathers in tail and only two feathers.
Why bird has two beautiful feathers in his tail.
Nature of animal's tail--miscellaneous.
Why king-salmon is thick around root of tail.
Why salmon has tapering tail.
Why baboons have crooked tails.
Why hares have cotton tail.
Why deer's tail tastes like liver.
Why rat's tail looks like a folded leaf.
Flesh of animal.
Why hog has good flesh.
Why animal is a hybrid.
Magpie is a hybrid of dove and raven; was not baptized by water of the flood in Noah's time.
Excrements of animals.
Why dung of ass is triangular.
Why red dog's excrement contains animal hair.
Honey as excrement of bees.
Why cat hides its excreta.
Gall-bladder of animal.
Nature of bird's eggs.
Why canary's eggs are yellow.
Cause of animal's beauty.
Cause of animal's ugliness.
Cause of serpent's ugliness.
How ostrich lost beautiful feathers.
Origin of color of mammals.
Origin of color of felidae.
Color of leopard.
Color of jaguar.
Origin of color of mustelidae.
Why weasel is white with dark tip to tail.
Why weasel is part black.
Color of ermine.
Color of otter.
Color of skunk.
Color of mink.
Color of canidae and other carnivora.
Color of fox.
Color of coyote.
Origin of color of rodentia.
Color of squirrel.
Color of beaver.
Color of rat.
Color of hare.
Why hare is grey in summer.
Origin of color of primata.
Color of monkey.
Why ape has red back.
Color of baboon.
Why baboon's face and hands are black.
Origin of color of ungulata.
Color of horse.
Color of hippopotamus.
Red color of bush-buck.
Color of cow.
Color of deer.
Color of elk.
Color of rhinoceros.
Origin of color of other mammals.
Origin of color of hyena.
Origin of color of bird.
Origin of color of passeriformes.
Color of thrush.
Color of water-ousel.
Color of wag-tail.
Color of swallow.
Color of raven.
Color of crow.
Color of rook.
Color of jay.
Color of blackbird.
Color of magpie.
Color of sparrow.
Color of goldfinch.
Color of red-bird.
Color of canary.
Color of trumpet-bird (psophia crepitans).
Color of starling.
Color of martin.
Origin of color of falconiformes.
Origin of color of charidriiformes.
Color of woodcock.
Origin of color of caraciiformes.
Color of woodpecker.
Color of owl.
Origin of color of ciconiiformes.
Color of cormorant.
Color of heron.
Color of stork.
Why stork has black back.
Color of gull.
Origin of color of other birds.
Color of loon.
Color of swan.
Color of goose.
Color of duck.
Color of turkey.
Color of guinea-fowl.
Color of peacock.
Color of partridge.
Color of pheasant.
Color of cuckoo.
Color of parrot.
Origin of color of insect.
Origin of color of bee.
Color of spider.
Origin of color of fish.
Color of halibut.
Color of perch.
Color of burbot.
Color of reptiles and other animal forms.
Color of turtle.
Color of frog.
Color of snail.
Color of mussel.
Why earthworm is red at one end.
Color of chameleon.
Why chameleon can change his color.
Color of shrimp.
Origin of animal markings.
Creator sends two deities to tatoo all creatures: origin of animal markings.
Markings of mammals.
White markings on deer.
Spots on leopard.
Why coyote has yellow patch behind his ears.
Why kangaroo-rat has white band around his body.
Why elephant has white marks on its body.
Why peccary has spots.
Markings on birds.
Markings on tail-feathers of ruffed grouse.
Markings of francolin.
Markings on insects.
Why louse has mark on his back.
Origin of butterflies' marks.
Markings on fish.
Markings on sun-fish.
Markings on king-salmon.
Why salmon has purple belly.
Markings on cod-fish.
Cross on crab's back.
Markings on flying fish.
Markings on other animals.
Markings on tortoise's back.
Why toads have warts on their backs.
Why frog is spotty all over.
Origin of animal's stripes.
Stripes of zebra.
Stripes of chipmunk.
Stripes of squirrel.
Stripes of tiger.
Stripes of alligator.
Stripes of cony.
Stripes on trout.
Origin and nature of animal's smell.
Bad smell of goat.
Burnt smell of mink.
Bad smell of skunk.
Burnt smell of wolverine.
Why ram smells bad.
Why bugs smell bad.
Why herrings have bad odor.
How animal got voice.
How night-swallow got voice.
How woodcock got voice.
Where crow got voice.
How partridge got voice. Borrowed from tortoise.
How quail got voice.
How nkundak got voice.
Why cocks crow.
Voice of peewit.
Why cat purrs.
How animal lost voice (or power of speech).
Why dog lost his power of speech.
Why dogs do not speak.
Why sheep do not speak.
Why white crow is dumb.
Why tortoise has no voice.
Why fly has no voice.
Why raven cannot talk.
Why frogs cannot speak.
Why cormorant cannot speak.
Why swallows lost voice.
Why cock does not speak.
General quality of animal's voice.
Animal's ugly voice.
Woodcock's ugly voice.
Peacock's ugly voice.
Loon's ugly voice.
Why ass brays.
Why hornbill speaks through his nose.
Origin of snail's monotonous voice.
Animal's pleasing voice.
Thrush's beautiful voice.
Cuckoo's sweet voice.
Origin of animal cries.
How dog began to bark.
Origin of birds' morning-songs (from singing angels).
Nature and meaning of animal cries.
Cries of mammals.
Cry of bush-cat.
Cry of squirrel.
Squirrel's call: asks whether viper (who ate up his children) is his friend.
Why hog grunts.
The hedgehog's cry.
Why dog barks after thief.
Why bats cry as they fly.
Cries of birds.
Nightingale's song.
Garden warbler's song.
Bittern's song.
Hoopoe's song.
Cuckoo's song.
Cawing of crow.
Croaking of raven.
Why dove coos.
Why goose quacks.
Why duck quacks.
What parrot says.
Meaning of swallow's song.
Cackling of guinea hen.
Why certain species of eagle cries like a baby: spirit of tortured baby became an eagle.
Origin of cry of brain-fever bird.
Origin of owl's cries.
Origin and meaning of cock's cry "cock-a-doodle-do".
Why cock crows on roof with neck stretched out.
Sounds of insects.
Beetle's hum.
Gnat's buzz.
Fly's buzz.
Cricket's chirp.
Mosquito's buzz.
Speech of fireflies.
Other animal cries.
Frog's croak.
Frogs formerly were ducks stolen from Eden by Cain.
Why frog croaks in wet weather.
Toad's croak.
Why animal howls (cries out) at night.
Why jackal cries in the night.
Why dog howls at night.
Why dogs howl when man is dying.
Why owl hoots at night.
Animal's hearing.
How animal lost hearing.
Birds' nests.
How bird learned to build nest.
Why bird has no nest.
Why cuckoo has no nest.
Crow hatches cuckoo's egg.
Why heron has no nest.
Nature of birds' nests.
Dove's nest.
Diver's nest.
Ring-dove's nest.
Gull's nest.
Swallow's nest.
Why swallow does not like green trees for her nest.
Crow's nest.
Why crow cannot enter sparrow's nest.
Why crow's nest is not tightly built.
Why crow must build nests far from people's houses.
Sparrow's nest.
Why sparrow may build nest near people's houses; reward for hospitality.
Turkey's nest.
Why brush turkey nests on the ground.
Dwelling of other animal than bird.
Why ant lives in ant-hill.
Why wasp has nest.
Beaver's dwelling.
Porcupine's dwelling.
Muskrat's dwelling.
Bear's den.
Wart-hog's burrow.
Bee's hive.
Why fly lives on dung heap.
Why the elephant lives without a hut.
Animal's characteristic haunt.
Establishment of animal haunt.
Animal haunt established by contest (race).
Animals change their type of dwelling-place.
Place to live given as patent right to dog.
Various haunts of animals.
Animals that live in woods.
Why small ants live in houses while driver ants must live in bush.
Why gorilla and chimpanzee live in forests: punishment for neglecting their possessions.
Animals that inhabit water.
Animals that live alone.
Why leopard walks alone.
Animals that live with men.
Why the chimpanzee lives with men.
Haunts of various animals--mammals.
Cat's characteristic haunt.
Why cat keeps chimney-corner.
Dog's characteristic haunt.
Why hare lives in bush.
Why hyena stays in burrow.
Why coney lives among rocks.
Why hog lives in sty.
Why rams live at home.
Why goat lives with men.
Why squirrel lives in tree.
Why squirrel stays hidden in jungle.
Why muskrats live in water.
Why porcupine lives in high places in mountains.
Why beaver lives along rivers.
Why elk lives in woods.
Why wolf lives in woods.
Why elephant does not live in town.
Why lion stays away from settlement.
Why bear lives where he does.
Why leopard lives where he does.
Why monkey lives in tree.
Why monkey has first fruits of harvest in every field.
Why mole lives underground.
Why tiger lives in jungle.
Haunts of birds.
Why owl lives where he does.
Why cock lives in town.
Why ptarmigan lives in country.
Why parrot lives in tree.
Why kingfisher lives in the air.
Why fowls never shut their doors at night.
Haunts of insects.
Why nit lives at edge of hair.
Why fly lives amid filth.
Haunts of spider.
Why spider lives under stones.
Why beetles live in manure.
Why ants are lords of the bush.
Why butterflies haunt urine-impregnated places.
Why cockroaches live in houses.
Haunts of reptiles, etc.
Haunts of tortoise (turtle).
Why tortoise lives in logs in stream.
Why turtle lays eggs on beach.
Why oyster lives in salt water.
Haunts of crab.
Why crabs live in water.
Why crabs burrow in sand.
Why common crab lives underground.
Why iguana lives in stream.
Why leeches live in water.
Habitation of frog.
Why toad lives in cold place.
Habitat of snake.
Why thousand-legged worm avoids sun.
Habitat of animal.
Why certain animals are found everywhere.
Why birds are everywhere.
Why bluebirds are everywhere.
Why snowbirds are everywhere.
Why black ants are everywhere.
Why jackal may go everywhere.
Why certain animals are absent from countries.
Why porcupines and skunks do not live on Cape Breton Island.
Why foxes do not live on a certain island: driven out by a god.
Why there are no snakes in Ireland.
Why animals live in certain countries.
Why locusts live in certain Pueblo towns.
Why there are wild turkeys in a certain Pueblo town.
Why elephant lives in Nigeria.
Food of animal.
Assignment of food to animal.
Why certain birds may not drink out of river.
How tiger formerly cooked its food and why it changed.
Nature of animal's food.
Why animals eat everything without salt.
Why certain animals are carnivorous.
Food of various animals--mammals.
Food of dog.
Food of cat.
Food of bear.
Food of wolf.
Food of wolverine.
Why moose eat willows.
Food of mouse.
Why mice eat grease and salmon.
Why ant-bear eats insects.
Food of tiger.
Why tigers eat dogs.
Why tigers eat uncooked food.
Why tigers eat human flesh.
Why tiger eats buffalo.
Food of rat.
Why rat may eat rice.
Food of reindeer.
Food of hare.
Why hare never drinks from rivers or streams.
Food of squirrel.
Food of pig.
Why pigs feed on excreta.
Why wildcats come and eat chickens.
Food of jaguar.
Why jaguars eat men.
Food of leopard.
Why leopards eat men.
Food of birds.
Food of cuckoo.
Why crane suffers thirst.
Why raven suffers thirst.
Food of eagle.
Food of buzzard.
Carrion as food of vultures.
Food of hawks.
Food of crow.
Why crow eats excrement.
Food of cock.
Why cock scratches for food.
Food of owl.
Why owl eats no grain.
Why owl drinks no water.
Food of jackdaw.
Food of wren.
Why wren eats no berries.
Food of insects.
Why bees may not get honey from red clover.
Why bees eat their own children.
Insect fries human blood and eats it.
Food of fish, reptiles, etc.
Food of tortoise.
Food of snake.
Snake sucks milk from woman's breast.
Why leech feeds on human blood.
Food of hawks.
Why animals lack fire.
Animal's gait or walk.
Animal's gait or walk--mammals.
Animals (and men) hop because ground is often so dry that it cracks: they have to jump over the cracks.
Cause of monkey's walk.
Why baboon walks on all fours.
Cause of dog's walk.
Cause of hyena's walk.
Cause of wolverine's walk.
Cause of skunk's walk.
Cause of elephant's walk.
Cause of ox's walk.
Cause of leopard's walk.
Cause of cat's walk.
Cause of hare's hopping gait.
Cause of sheep's walk.
Cause of bird's walk.
Why raven hops.
Graceful step of dove.
Cause of insect's walk.
Why beetle creeps on ground.
Cause of flea's movement.
Cause of fly's movement.
Cause of movement of reptile, etc.
Why snake does not go on the road.
Cause of crab's walk.
Cause of toad's hop.
Cause of chameleon's movement.
Method and position of bird's flight.
High and low flight of birds.
Why some birds cannot fly high.
Why parrots fly high.
Flight of various birds.
Why raven claps wings in flying.
Why cuckoo flies with difficulty, and sings with wings spread.
Why lapwing flies in curves.
Bluejay's flight.
Hawk's flight.
Water-birds' flight and diving.
Wild-goose's flight.
Eagle's flight.
How birds began to fly.
Animal's method of swimming.
Why some fish swim deep; others shallow.
Why dolphins swim up and down.
How salmon swims.
Animal's occupation: carrying.
Why ants carry large bundles.
Animal's occupation: hunting.
Why dogs hunt.
Why stork must hunt for living.
Why hawks put heads of mice, etc.
Animal's occupation: collecting.
Why ant collects resin.
Animal's occupation: stealing.
Why wolf is thief.
Why swallow is thief.
Why raven is thief.
Why hen does not know how to steal.
Why wolverine is a thief.
Animal's occupation: boring.
Why woodpecker bores in wood.
Why wood-worm bores wood.
Animal's occupation: rolling.
Why tumble-bug rolls in dung.
Animal's means of defense.
Hare sleeps with open eyes as defense.
Toad remains still when he hears footsteps (defense).
Killer-whale uses dorsal fin as weapon.
Why deer run, stop, and run on again (defense).
Animal's habits when attacked.
Why squirrel barks when attacked.
Why beaver splashes his tail in water and dives when attacked.
Why mouse does not defend self against cat.
Animal's means of attack.
Why leopard cannot capture animal who passes him on right side.
Why animal does not attack.
Why lion does not attack dog.
Means of capturing animal.
Why fish are caught in nets.
Animal's habits when caught.
Why opossum plays dead when caught.
Why turtle beats with forelegs when caught.
Animal's behavior at death.
Why shrew dies on road.
Why toad dries up when dead.
Why dragon dies by means of fire.
Why animals continually seek something.
Why dogs look at one another under tail.
Why dogs sniff at one another.
Why hogs inspect one another: seek pancake.
Why hawk (vulture) hovers over camp-fire: seeks grandmother.
Why diver always looks at sea.
Why lynx squints: is looking afar at view.
Why dog is always looking.
Why dog looks back at person who has beaten him.
Why dogs howl, looking at sky.
What hawks are looking for.
Why mason-wasp looks for fireplace.
Why animals always look down.
Why animals ruminate.
Why cows ruminate.
Why animals lift their legs.
Why dogs lift their legs.
Why dogs leave droppings at crossroads.
Why pigs in mud lift their legs.
Why some animals continually shake head.
Why lizard bobs head up and down.
Why hare shakes head.
Why owl shakes head.
Why animals scent from distance.
Why deer scent people from distance.
Why animals move mouth, nose, etc.
Why rabbit continually moves mouth.
Why animals root in ground.
Why hog roots in ground.
Why hen scratches in ground.
Why certain animals are continually eating.
Why zebra is continually eating.
Other habitual bodily movements of animals.
Why wagtail moves tail up and down.
Why hare skips about like a leaf.
Why jackals make noise at night when seeking food.
Why the hedgehog draws himself up: shame at sight of a good man.
Why caterpillars climb trees.
Why ants fall upon every man.
Why dog snaps every fly.
Why flies fly around ox's eyes.
Why animals hibernate.
Why bears hibernate.
Why animals migrate.
Why swallows migrate.
Why caribou migrate.
Why wren does not migrate.
Why animals shed periodically.
Why snake sheds skin.
Why animals crowd together seasonally.
Why fish come in seasonally.
Why animals lay eggs as they do.
Why raven lays eggs in March.
Why bustard hatches but two eggs.
Why dove lays but two eggs.
How birds began to lay eggs.
Animal's periodic habits--miscellaneous.
Why cock wakes man in morning.
Why cock crows to greet sunrise.
Why certain animals avoid light.
Why bat flies by night.
Why bat sleeps by day.
Why owl avoids daylight.
Why mole burrows underground.
Tiger cursed with short sight in day time: good sight only at night.
Why grasshoppers and locusts hide in day.
Why certain animals go in herds.
Why jackals do not go in herds.
Why birds do not live in societies.
Friendships between the animals.
Former friendship between domestic and wild animals.
Friendship of prairie-dog and owl.
Friendship of bat and owl.
Friendship of tiger and buffalo.
Friendship between man and dog.
Friendship between deer and fish.
Friendship between squirrel and quail.
Friendship between leopard-cat and squirrel.
Friendship between leopard-cat and night-jar.
Friendship between leopard and goat.
Friendship of cat and mouse.
Oath of friendship between cat and rat.
Friendship of fox and titmouse.
Friendship between jackal and crocodile.
Friendship between jackal and alligator.
Friendship between jackal and elephant.
Friendship between jackal and tiger.
Jackal and tiger as business partners.
Friendship between jackal and partridge.
Friendship between turtle and heron.
Friendship between turtle and wallaby.
Friendship between hare and parrot.
Friendship between monkey and elephant.
Friendship between monkey and tiger.
Friendship between monkey and lion.
Friendship between monkey and stork.
Friendship between monkey and rabbit.
Friendship between partridge, monkey and elephant.
Friendship between wolf and ass.
Friendship between cock and dog.
Friendship between tiger and deer (fawn).
Friendship between cat and tiger.
Friendship between crab and cobra.
Friendship between frog and cricket.
Friendship between grasshopper and dungbeetle.
Friendship between goat and hog.
Friendship between louse and crow.
Friendship between cow and tiger, calf and cub.
Friendship between snake and crow.
Friendship between parrot and maina.
Friendship between bird and crab.
Friendship between mouse and butterfly.
Friendship between ant and pheasant.
Friendship between tiger and lion.
Friendship between lion and jackal.
Friendship between cow and lioness.
Friendship between dog and elephant.
Friendship between antelope, woodpecker and tortoise.
Friendship between pike and crawfish.
Friendship of hen and duck.
Friendship between hen and sparrow.
Why we know that the parrot comforts and helps man.
Why certain animals are enemies.
The cat's enemies.
Enmity between cat and mouse.
Enmity between cat and dog.
Enmity between cat and hare.
Enmity between cat and rat.
Enmity between cat and hen.
Enmity between cat and tiger.
Enmity between cat and spider.
Enmity between civet cat and chicken.
The leopard's enemies.
Enmity between leopard and antelope.
Enmity between leopard and lion.
Enmity between leopard and goat.
Enmity between leopard and deer.
Enmity between dog and leopard.
Enmity between leopard and sheep.
Enmity between leopard and monkey.
The hyena's enemies.
Enmity between hyena and ass.
Enmity between hyena and jackal.
Enmity between hyena and weasel.
Enmity between hyena and cow.
Enmity between hyena and wildcat.
The dog's enemies.
Dog driven away from other animals because of his barking.
Enmity between dog and squirrel.
Enmity between dog and crocodile.
Enmity between dog and mouse.
Enmity between dog and rabbit.
Enmity between dog and fox.
Enmity between dog and cat.
Enmity between dog and lion.
Enmity between dog and bull.
Enmity between dog and tiger.
Enmity between dog and cow.
Enmity between dog and rooster.
Enmity between fowl and dog.
Enmity between palm rat and dog.
The jackal's enemies.
Enmity between jackal and wild hen.
Enmity between jackal and kite.
Enmity between jackal and crab.
Enmity between jackal and alligator.
The rabbit's enemies.
Enmity between lynx and rabbit.
Enmity between rabbit and coyote.
Enmity between fisher and rabbit.
The lion's enemies.
Enmity between monkey and lion.
Enmity between lion and wolf.
Enmity between lion and man.
The bear's enemies.
Enmity between bears and goats.
Enmity between bear and ant.
Enemies of fox.
Enmity between baboon and fox.
Enmity between fox and chicken.
The tiger's enemies.
Enmity between tiger and man.
Enmity between tiger and boar.
Enmity between tiger and bear.
The elephant's enemies.
Enmity between elephant and thousand-leg.
Enmity between crocodile and elephant.
Enmity between elephant and ant.
Miscellaneous enmities of mammals.
Enmity between panther, antelope, and tortoise.
Enmity between mongoose and snake.
Enmity between ox and antelope.
Enmity between cattle and snails.
Enmity between coyote and meadowlark.
Enmity between raven and mink.
Enmity between marten and squirrel.
Enmity between deer and terrapin.
Enmity between rat and spider.
Enmity between chimpanzee and man.
Enmity between porcupine and snail.
Enmities of birds.
Enmity between crow and owl.
Enmity between kite and crow.
Enmity between fowl and cockroach.
Enmity between owl and mouse.
Enmity between owl and fowl.
Enmity between crow and prairie-dog.
Enmity between raven and marshsnipe.
Enmity between raven and mink.
Enmity between woodpecker and weaver-bird.
Enmity between bird and rat.
The hen's enemies.
Enmity between hen and all other animals.
Enmity between hen, beetle, and duck.
Enmity between hawk and hen.
Enmity between falcon and hen.
Enmity between hen and tiger.
Enmity between birds of prey and chickens.
The starling's enemies.
Enmity between grasshopper and starling.
Enmity between starling and locust.
Enmity between parrot and starling.
Enmity between fowl and falcon.
The insects' enemies.
Enmity between spider and fly.
Enmity between spider and wasp.
Why stinging flies sit on eyes of cattle.
The fish's enemies.
Enemies of reptiles and other animal forms.
Enmity between frog and snake.
Enmity between chameleon and lizard.
Enmity between cobra and viper.
Enmity between bird and lizard.
Enmity between crab and spider.
Enmity between earthworm and rattlesnake.
Enmity between octopus and rat.
Animal's treatment of its excrements (urine).
Why cat buries its excrements.
Why ass smells his own excrements.
Why donkeys always urinate when others begin.
Sexual intercourse of animals.
Why dogs get stuck in copulation.
Copulation of serpents.
Why men, fish and serpents face each other in copulation.
Monogamy among animals.
Monogamous life of dove.
Other habits of animals: miscellaneous.
Why tigers do not kill women who run away after quarreling with their husbands.
Why reindeer has so many qualities.
Why flesh of animal is good.
Why black bears are better eating than grizzly bears.
Animal useful because of power of scenting.
Why dog can follow animal's scent.
Why certain animals serve men.
Existence of animals depends upon existence of man.
Origin of dog's service.
Dog looks for the most powerful master.
How cat was domesticated.
How pig was domesticated.
Why goat lives with man.
Why ox serves man.
Animal useful for bearing burdens.
Why ox is draft animal.
Why animal is sad.
Why turtle-dove is sad.
Why animal is disliked.
Why sparrow is disliked.
Why shrike is disliked.
Why white ants are a pest.
Why skunk is disliked.
Why crow is disliked.
Why wren is disliked.
Why fly is hated.
Why animal is evil.
Why hog has evil spirit.
Why snakes are proud.
Why rattlesnake is dangerous.
Why animal is pugnacious (brave, bold).
Why grizzly bears are pugnacious.
Why sandpiper (machetis pugnax) fights.
Why bears attack men.
Why fish attack anything they find.
Why lion is brave.
Why dog is bold.
Why animals are deceptive.
Why hare is deceptive.
Why crab is cunning.
Why fox is sly.
Why animals are unrestrained.
Why dog lacks restraint.
Why animal is vain.
Why cock is vain and selfish.
Why peacock is vain.
Why animal is strong.
Why leopard is strong.
Why animal is harmless.
Wild animals lose their ferocity.
Why water serpents are not venomous.
Why grizzly bear is peaceable.
Why elephant is peaceable.
Why elephant flees when cock crows.
Why animals are venomous.
Why snakes are venomous.
Why hairy caterpillar is venomous.
Why animal is timorous.
Why crab is afraid in dark.
Animals of good omen.
Why swallow brings good luck.
Why ring-dove brings good luck.
Why spider brings good luck.
Why animal is stupid.
Why fish is stupid.
Why ass is stupid.
Why animal is sacred.
Why bee is sacred.
Why stork is holy.
Why animal is cursed.
Why magpie is cursed.
Magpie refuses to get into ark, sits around outside, jabbering over drowned world, is unlucky.
Why spider is cursed.
Animal given certain privilege.
Why flies may eat anywhere.
Why cat eats first.
Why dog eats first.
Dog granted proper food.
Why wild pigs ravage rice-fields.
Animal granted patent of nobility.
Dog granted patent of nobility.
Wolf granted patent of nobility.
Why certain animal is king.
Why certain bird is king of birds.
Why game is easy to hunt.
Why game animals are elusive.
Why certain animals are swift.
Why sheep is a good runner.
Why certain animals are sterile.
Why mule is sterile.
How animals received their names.
Adam gives name to all animals.
Adam names male animals, Eve, female.
God gives animals their name on first Sabbath.
Names of animals explained by their characteristics.
How the blackbird (merulus) received its name.
Quarrels introduced among animals.
Why monkeys do not fall from trees.
Why tiger cannot come down a tree head foremost.
Why animal has long life.
Why daddy-long-legs has long life.
Why eagle has long life.
Why tiger lacks some qualities of cats: cat, his teacher, omitted to teach him all he knew.
Why certain animals are plentiful.
Why pigs are plentiful.
Why particular animals are not found in certain place.
Why certain district is free of mosquitoes.
Why ants no longer live on the back of the hare.
Why there is enmity between certain animals and man.
Origin of enmity between serpent and man.
Origin of plants: creator sends down the insects, who plant them.
Planting the earth.
Plants from body of slain person or animal.
Plants from grave of dead person or animal.
Plants from foetus or body of stillborn child.
Human placenta transformed into plant.
Parts of body of god transformed into plants.
Women transformed into flowers.
Parts of human or animal body transformed into plants.
Corn from body of slain person.
Tobacco from grave of bad woman.
Tobacco from grave of virgin.
Coconut tree from head of slain monster.
Pepper plant from body of slain person.
Mandrake from blood of person hanged on gallows.
Hair transformed into plants.
Grass from hair of slain person.
Origin of rue: from drops of Christ's blood.
Plants from tears.
Tears of Adam and Eve leaving paradise become trees.
Tears of Mary at Annunciation become daisies.
God's tears become peas.
Plant from spittle.
Mushroom from spittle of deity.
Object transformed to plant.
Mary hides in ground nail to be used for cross: origin of thistles.
Plant from mother's milk.
Canoe transformed into coconut tree.
Seaweed becomes vegetation.
One plant transformed into another.
Plants from transformed person (animal).
Living boys or girls transformed into plants.
Living animals transformed into plants.
Plants from tread of holy person.
Flowers from under the feet of Virgin Mary.
Plants from tread of goddess.
Peter lets key of heaven fall: origin of "Heaven Key" (primrose).
St. Peter's grass.
Origin of plant from staff of holy person.
Origin of thorn tree from staff of Joseph of Arimathea.
Plants from clothing of deity.
Origin of plant as punishment.
Punishment for first murder: thistles, etc.
Punishment for Fall of Man: thistles, etc.
Origin of plant as reward.
Willow shelters Holy Family: becomes weeping willow.
Origin of tree for crucifixion of Christ.
Plants created by direct divine agency.
Origin of daisy.
Origin of primrose.
Origin of "Mary's bed straw" (thymus serpyllum).
Origin of bindweed (convolvulus sepium).
Origin of rose.
Origin of mossrose.
Origin of York and Lancaster rose.
Origin of forget-me-not.
Origin of lady-slipper (calceolaria hybrida).
Origin of snowdrop (galanthus nivatis).
Origin of hellebore.
Origin of clove.
Origin of mandrake.
Origin of wild morning glory.
Origin of narcissus.
Origin of rue.
Origin of trees.
Origin of weeping willow.
Origin of oak.
Poplars from weeping maidens transformed by god.
Origin of birch trees.
First birch trees in Ireland.
Origin of palms.
Origin of coconut tree.
Origin of bamboo.
Origin of sandalwood tree.
Origin of dammar tree.
Origin of mulberry tree.
Origin of banyan tree.
Origin of breadfruit tree.
Origin of palm-wine tree.
Origin of cedar tree.
Origin of creepers.
Origin of grass.
Origin of cultivated plants.
Origin of flax.
Origin of hemp.
Origin of sorghum.
Origin of cotton plant.
Origin of cereals.
Origin of corn.
Origin of maize.
Origin of straw.
Origin of rye.
Origin of barley.
Origin of manioc.
Origin of vegetables.
Origin of mushroom.
Origin of peas.
Origin of pepper plant.
Origin of kava plant.
Origin of edible roots.
Origin of sweet potato.
Origin of taro.
Origin of yams.
Origin of turmeric.
Origin of beans.
Origin of gourds.
Origin of cinnamon.
Origin of fruits.
Origin of blood-oranges.
Origin of melons.
Origin of berries.
Origin of pumpkin.
Origin of banana.
Origin of weeds.
Origin of thistles.
Origin of thorn-bush.
Origin of narcotic plants.
Origin of coffee.
Origin of tobacco.
Origin of ganja.
Origin of opium.
Origin of betel.
Origin of poisonous plants.
Plant blessed for pious act.
Plant blessed for help at Jesus' birth.
Trees blessed that made the cross.
Elder tree is never struck by lightning because it was used in making the cross.
Plant blessed for helping holy fugitive.
Tree protects Jesus from rain: is green all year.
Hazel gives Virgin Mary shelter.
Thistle serves as milk-cup for Virgin Mary: white spots on leaves.
Plant receives name because of service to Virgin Mary.
Rowan helps Thor out of river.
How the plum tree came to be so hardy: blessed by Ram.
Fig tree stays with the angels: rewarded with sap of all other trees.
Plant cursed for impious act.
Plant cursed for disservice to child Jesus.
Plant cursed for disservice at crucifixion.
Tree cursed for serving as cross.
Aspen cursed for serving as cross.
Poplar cursed for serving as cross.
Cottonwood cursed for serving as cross.
Elder cursed for serving as cross.
Indentations on plants from Christ's biting them at crucifixion.
Plant punished for ungracious answer to holy person.
Man tells Jesus he is sowing stones.
Farmer tells begging monk that potatoes are hard as stones: why potatoes are hard.
Plant cursed for betraying holy fugitive.
Tree on which Judas hanged himself cursed.
Why the mogli flower and the lime are cursed by gods.
Trees fail to come at god's leavetaking, now bear bitter fruit.
Barren trees as punishment of earth for disobedience at man's fall.
Plant punished for disobedience.
Plantain disobeys mother: hence bears but one stalk.
Plant punished for discontent.
Discontented pine-tree: cause of pine needles.
God changes nature of plant to punish wastefulness of man: yield of plant is decreased.
Plant punished for tardiness.
Ash-tree late at distribution of qualities at creation: therefore buds last.
Plant punished for tale-telling.
Curse of tale-telling banana affects all others.
Plant characteristics from transformation.
Trickster's burnt flesh becomes gum on trees.
Plant characteristics from tears.
Plant characteristics from Virgin Mary's tears.
Plant characteristics from Virgin Mary's milk.
Blood from wizard becomes red grain of cedar.
Why agar-tree has magic properties.
Poppy characteristics from series of reincarnations.
Plant characteristics from object thrown by devil.
Devil throws sand at aspen: hence rough bark.
Devil throws tar at tree: hence tar in tree-heart.
Evil spirit in spite puts bark and thorns on tree.
Christ puts knots in wood.
Plant characteristics from accident to original plant.
Bean laughs till it splits: cause of black stripe.
Yams dropped by bird and split: why some are good and some bad.
Sky rests on top of trees: hence flat leaves.
Bush loses clothes in shipwreck: hence catches passerby looking for clothes.
Why khijur leaves are long and narrow: split with an arrow.
Plant characteristics from exchange of qualities.
Plant characteristic because plant belongs to the devil.
Fuschia belongs to devil: hence ball and red petals.
Bark of plant.
Origin of bark on plants.
Texture of bark of plant.
Why aspen's bark is rough.
Why bark of red willow is thin.
Why tinsa tree has no bark at bottom of trunk.
Markings on bark of plant.
Indentions in stem of reed.
Crosses on certain trees.
Color of bark of plant.
Why birch has white bark.
Why ebony tree is black.
Why tamarind bark is black.
Why bark of saja and tinsa is white.
Why broom-corn is covered with blood-red spots.
Why kava plant is grey.
Thorns on plants.
Why bombax tree has thorns.
Internal parts of plant.
Origin of red grain of cedar.
Origin of blood-colored sap in trees.
Why the saja tree has no sap.
Origin of tar in heart of trees.
Origin of amber in poplar trees.
Origin of gum in myrrh tree.
Origin of knots in wood.
Why there are knots on the saja tree.
Why the bamboo has nodes.
Why certain reeds are hollow.
Why all trees have leaves.
Shape of leaves of plant.
Why oak-leaves are indented.
Why vine-leaves are hand-shaped.
Why plant-leaves are flat.
Movement of leaves.
Why aspen-leaves tremble.
Why poplar-leaves tremble.
Why pipal leaves tremble.
Why certain leaves have holes in them.
Why certain leaves are hollow.
Why taro leaves are hollow.
Why leaves are evergreen.
Why certain tree bleeds.
Why elder tree bleeds when cut.
Origin of tree's needles.
Origin of pine-needles.
Why leaves hang head downward.
Leaves of plant--miscellaneous.
Why tamarind leaves are small.
Budding and bearing of plant.
Why ash-tree buds last.
Why plantain bears but one stalk.
Why sago bears fruit from the stem.
Why banana bears fruit from crown of tree.
Why rice has ears only at top.
Trees bear first buds to commemorate reign of primitive hero.
Why certain willow tree bears fruit when fruit trees bear.
Why sorrel grows on certain rock every winter.
Why tree has bitter fruit.
Why olive is bitter.
Why laurel tree is bitter.
Why big trees have small fruit.
Why willow flowers do not bear fruit.
Color of plants.
Origin of rose's color.
Why end of rush is black.
Why the heartsease (polygonum persicaria) has red stripes.
Why ebony tree has black wood and smoke-colored leaves.
Why trees remain fixed.
Why ayikha-bush is firmly rooted.
Why certain trees are dwarfed.
Why plants no longer reach sky.
Why certain plants are cursed.
Why birch is cursed.
Why weeping-willow is cursed.
Why certain plants (trees) are blessed.
Why fig tree is chief priest of the trees.
King of trees.
Why certain tree is tall.
Why coconut tree is tall.
Why palm is tall.
Origin of plant names.
Origin of combustible property of wood.
Medicinal properties of trees.
Origin of shape of particular tree.
Origin of shape of wiliwili tree.
Why certain tree is hardy.
Sundry characteristics of trees.
Why trees do not talk.
Why lightning spares the nut-tree.
How banyan got its milk.
Why no one can find flower of wild fig.
Why tamarind fruit is sour.
Why some trees have no fruit.
Why sap comes from top of palm.
Why fruit of sago palm looks like an eye.
Why sago palm gives abundant sap.
Why fruit of date palm looks like breasts of old woman.
Why the bija tree is often struck by lightning.
Why the roots of the banyan hang down.
Sundry characteristics of shrubs.
Why bush holds on to passer-by.
Sundry characteristics of grains and vegetables.
Why bean has black stripe.
Why beans bear everywhere.
Why grain of wheat is divided.
Why wheat must be planted in one year and harvested in the next.
Why some yams are good, some bad.
Why potatoes are hard.
Why grain grows only at top of stalk (punishment for men's sinfulness).
Why corn does not yield in the middle.
Origin of shapes of grain.
Why rice is so abundant.
Why millet is red on top.
Why buckwheat produces twice a year.
Sundry characteristics of vegetables.
Why mushrooms are slimy.
Why yams are small but plentiful in certain place.
Sundry characteristics of flowers.
Why some flowers have no scent.
Origin of musk.
Origin of honey.
Origin of spices.
Origin of floating webs in summer.
Origin of smoke.
Origin of the will-o'-the-wisp (jack-o'-lantern).
Smith outwits devil, is admitted to neither heaven nor hell.
Will-o'-the-wisp is girl cursed by her mother for gathering plants for dyestuffs on Sunday.
Origin of churning stick.
Origin of drum.
Origin of canes: from whip thrust into ground.
Origin of shells.
Origin of pearls.
Origin of particular kinds of basket.
Origin of demons.
Origin of fish drug.
Origin of scum on stagnant water.
Miscellaneous origins.
Miscellaneous Jewish origins.
The four characteristics of wine.
Why sexes differ in form and temperament.
Why men like tobacco, but spit when smoking.
Trees classified as "pleasant trees, herb trees, shrub trees."
Why men become old.
Why spirits are invisible.
Why soil in certain country is poor.
Why coral is soft.
Why babies have soft spots in head.
Why palm oil is red.
Animal elders.
Angels of animals.
Animal totems.
Dog as totem animal.
Fantastic beasts, birds, etc., in art.
Animals in the heavens.
Animals rule celestial spheres.
Mythical animals surround God's throne.
Mythical bird running before the sun bears inscription of golden letters.
Dragon.
Origin of dragon.
Dragon from cock's egg.
Dragon from transformed horse.
Dragon from transformed man lying on his treasures (Fбfnir).
Transformed princess as dragon.
Dragon from worm.
Dragon develops from small worm placed on gold.
Devil in form of dragon.
Form of dragon.
She-dragon.
Dragon as compound animal.
Dragon as modified serpent.
Dragon as modified lizard.
Dragon as modified fish.
Dragon as modified shell-fish.
Dragon as modified toad.
Dragon as modified elephant.
Dragon as modified horse.
Dragon as modified ram.
Dragon as modified deer.
Dragon as modified eagle.
Dragon as other modified animal.
Color of dragon.
Dragon with golden feathers.
Many-headed dragon.
Seven-headed dragon.
Three-headed dragon.
Six-headed dragon.
Nine-headed dragon.
Twelve-headed dragon.
Two-headed dragon.
Feet of dragon.
Feet of dragon--number.
Feet of dragon--nature.
Horns of dragon.
Wings of dragon.
Snakes issue from dragon's shoulders.
Tail of dragon.
Dragon encircles city with its tail.
Heart of dragon.
Scales of dragon.
Fire-breathing dragon.
Dragon spews venom.
Breath of dragon kills man.
Dragon of enormous size.
Blood of dragon.
Blood of dragon venomous.
Dragon with jewel in head.
Habitat of dragon.
Dragon's home in bottom of sea.
Dragon lives in lake.
Dragon's home beneath waterfall.
Dragon's home at top of mountain.
Dragon's visit to sky.
Dragons live beneath castle.
Dragon lives under the ground.
Dragons live in hell.
Dragon lives beneath tree.
Dragon lives in isolated island.
Dragon's habits.
Flying dragon.
Dragon as giver of omens.
Sleepless dragon.
Dragon travels on sea or land.
Talking dragon.
Powers of dragon.
Dragon's power of self-transformation.
Dragon's power of magic invisibility.
Dragon's miraculous vision.
Dragon's miraculous speed.
Self-returning dragon's head.
Deeds of dragons.
Dragon helps hero out of gratitude.
Grateful dragon saves hero and rescues him from prison.
Dragon guards treasure.
Dragon must give up treasure when steel is thrown on him.
Serpents play with precious green stone.
Dragon's pearl stolen.
Dragon feeds on treasure.
Dragon guards holy land.
Dragon guards hermit's food, frightens off robbers.
Dragon guards bridge to otherworld.
Dragon eats an ox at every meal.
Dragon flies to its nest with human being.
Dragon flies away with lion.
Dragon gnaws the roots of tree.
Sandalwood tree is guarded by dragon with venomous breath.
Dragon as rain-spirit.
Dragon controls water-supply.
Dragon causes deluge.
Dragon guards lake.
Dragon as power of good.
Dragon as power of evil.
Sacrifice of human being to dragon.
Sacrifice of animals to dragon.
Dragon keeps maiden tied with golden chain.
Dragon eats people for his rent.
Dragon devours children.
Fight with dragon.
Dragon fight: respite granted and dragon returns with renewed strength.
Hero's dogs (horse) prevent dragon's heads from rejoining body.
Dragon combats attack with showers of fiery spines.
Dragon fight in order to free princess.
Dragon fight in order to free man.
Dragon fight in order to free lion.
Woman as dragon-slayer.
Dragon doubles his demand after men's rebellion.
Other traits of dragon.
Dragon cannot be killed with weapons.
Dragon which cannot be killed with weapons is kicked in vulnerable spot.
Dragon dips wounded part in holy well, is healed immediately.
Dragon's shriek makes land barren.
Fiery dragon.
Dragon is fond of milk.
Dragon is fed great quantities of milk to keep him pacified.
The dragon-king.
Dragon can hear a child cry even at great distance.
Human-dragon marriage.
Basilisk.
Basilisk hatched from cock's egg.
Basilisk's fatal glance.
Basilisk killed by seeing own image.
Unicorn.
Other hybrid animals.
Chimera.
Animal with body of horse, legs of hound.
Hybrid monster: calf-sheep.
Animals with unusual limbs or members.
Animal unusual as to his head.
Headless animals.
Headless dog.
Many-headed animal.
Two-headed animal.
Two-headed serpent.
Two-headed tiger.
Jaguar with two heads.
Two-headed dog.
Three-headed animal.
Three-headed bird.
Three-headed serpent.
Four-headed animal.
Four-headed monster.
Five-headed animal.
Six-headed animal.
Seven-headed animal.
Seven-headed serpent.
Eight-headed animal.
Nine-headed animal.
Hydra: nine-headed monster.
Nine-headed serpent.
Ten-headed serpent.
Other many-headed animals.
Twelve-headed serpent.
Hundred-headed serpent (monster).
Thousand-headed serpent.
Animal with head of bone.
Many-mouthed animal.
Six-mouthed serpent.
Animal unusual as to his horns.
Hornless cow.
Hornless bull.
One-horned ox.
Many-horned animal.
Three-horned deer.
Nine-horned sheep.
Ox with three horns.
Ox with four horns.
Animal with a gold (silver) horn.
Deer with a gold and a silver horn.
Goat with a gold and a silver horn.
Ox with golden horns.
Cow with silver horns.
Deer with giant antler.
Animal usually harmless has horns.
Hare with horns.
Horned armadillo lives underground.
Animal with horn on his head pointing to the sky.
Animals with unusual eyes.
Many-eyed animal.
Many-eyed antelope.
Four-eyed tiger.
Four-eyed jaguar.
Eight-eyed bat.
Beasts with fiery eyes.
Dog with fire in eyes.
Dogs with eyes like plates, tea-cups, etc.
Animal with human eyes (transformed man).
One-eyed pig.
Animal unusual as to his nose (snout).
Horse with fire-breathing nostrils.
Animal with snout of iron.
Animals with unusual legs or feet.
One-footed animal.
Three-legged quadrupeds.
Empousa.
Animals with many legs.
Six-legged quadruped.
Six-legged horse.
Twelve-legged bird.
Seven-legged beast.
Bull with human hands and feet.
Other animals with unusual limbs or members.
Cerberus.
Monster three-legged ass.
Bird with head of gold and wings of silver.
Fox with eight-forked tail.
Ghormuhas: men's bodies, horses' heads, one leg, cannibals.
Three-tailed turtle.
Leopard with nine tails.
Nine-tailed fox.
Boar with nine tusks in each jaw.
Cow with tallow liver.
Cow with two bags: one containing a one-legged bird; the other, a twelve-legged bird.
Animal unusual as to skin.
Animal with horny skin.
Animal with hair of iron pins.
Animal with one head, two bodies, six legs.
Eel with fiery mane.
Bird with fiery beak.
Bird with beak of iron.
Bird with tail of fire.
Monster with 100 hands, 100 palms on each hand, and 100 nails on each palm.
Eagle with twelve wings and three heads.
Devastating animals.
Beasts that destroy vineyards and steal fruit.
Tormenting beast in man's stomach.
Man-eating monster (in cave).
Devastating domestic animals.
Monster cat devastates country.
Monster cat born of a pig.
Cat leaps through man like arrow of fire and burns him to ashes.
Cat devours flesh of man's legs.
Devastating dog (hound).
Giant devastating hound.
Devastating horse.
Man-eating mares.
Devastating swine.
Giant devastating boar.
Giant devastating sow.
Man-eating cattle.
Monster ox (bull) killed.
Destructive cow possessed by demons.
Devastating bull.
Destructive sheep.
Devastating supernatural lamb.
Devastating wild animals.
Devastating fox.
Devastating tiger.
Hostile tiger killed.
Giant lion overcome by hero.
Giant devastating wolf overcome by hero.
Devastating bear killed.
Devastating elephant.
Destructive deer.
Giant man-eating mice.
Devastating bison (buffalo).
Devastating birds.
Devastating fish carries off daily victim.
Leviathan casts up gorge which spreads disease.
Leviathan causes cataclysm by striking earth with tail.
Sea-beast: when it belches landward, it causes disease; upward it kills birds; downward, fishes and sea animals.
Devastating reptiles.
Giant devastating serpent.
Devastating serpent with fiery breath.
Devastating (man-eating) sea-monster (serpent).
Serpent sucks man's breath (blood).
Devastating crocodile.
Devastating shell-fish.
Man-devouring turtle.
Devastating insects.
Giant man-eating ants.
Blood-sucking chafer.
Fierce black chafer.
Destructive locusts (with wings of iron) eat wheat crop.
Devastating spider.
Devastating centipede.
Hostile animals.
Hostile beasts.
Ferocious animals loosed against attackers.
Hostile dog (hound).
Bloodhounds decapitate victim.
Hostile hound killed by reaching through hollow log in its jaws--and tearing heart out.
Hero kills hostile hound (monster) by tearing (forcing) out its entrails (heart).
Transformed man as hostile dog.
Hostile cattle.
Hostile horse.
Infuriated horses kill driver.
Hostile cat.
Other hostile animals.
Hostile sea-beasts.
Hostile sea-rat.
Hostile eel attacks hero.
Hostile sea-cat.
Hostile griffin.
Hostile raven.
Raven plucks out men's eyes.
Hostile scorpion.
Scorpion scoops out men's eyes.
Behemoth: mythical gigantic animal.
Other mythical beasts.
Brazen-footed, fire-breathing bulls.
Nectar-yielding cow.
The cow Audhumla.
Horse born of egg.
Immortal horses.
Mythical horse belonging to water-spirit.
Glowing animals.
Burrowing swine heat ground.
Fiery serpent.
Sheep with fiery collar.
Hound flame of fire by night.
Horse with golden mane.
Herd which came from heaven.
Cows of the sun.
The goat Heidrun.
Mythical antelope.
Eternal bats.
Mythical tiger.
Mythical donkey.
Army of half-animals, half-men.
Beast-men in the lower world.
Centaur: man-horse.
Norse man-horse: "fingalkn" or "fingalp".
Body and hands human, head and ears those of a horse.
Man with horse's mouth.
Man-ass.
Body of man, head of ass.
Ass with human intelligence.
Man-bull.
Minotaur.
Bull with man's head.
Man with (two) horns on his head.
Satyr.
Satyr reveals woman's infidelity.
Man with goat's head.
Man-dog.
Man with dog's head.
Dog-headed man has mane of horse (cattle).
Dog-headed people.
Dog with human head.
Man-tiger.
Girl with tiger's legs and ears.
Man-lion.
Man-elephant.
Other combinations of beast and man.
Lamia.
Echidna.
Serpent with human head.
Man with serpent's head.
Snake body-woman's head.
Man-hog.
Man-cat.
Man with cat's head.
Man with head and tail of cat.
Man-wolf.
Man-elk.
Man-bear.
Man-hedgehog.
Man-ape.
Mythical white albatross.
Mythical cock.
Roc.
The bird Ziz, Hebrew counterpart of roc.
Roc's egg.
Roc drops rock on ship.
The Bird Gam.
Giant ravens.
Giant swimming raven.
Giant bat.
Simorg: giant bird.
Other giant birds.
Giant blackbird.
Giant bird pulls up oak tree by roots.
Giant bird alighting on oak tree causes it to tremble.
Phoenix.
Phoenix renews youth.
Phoenix renews youth when 1,000 years old.
Man-eating birds.
Other devastating birds.
Devastating birds wither everything with their breath.
Devastating birds destroy grass.
Black birds destroy crops.
Devastating birds with poisonous spells on their wings.
Bird of dawn.
Camrosh.
Milk-producing bird.
Immortal bird.
Other mythical birds.
Bird from paradise.
Bird-horse.
Pegasus.
Flying horse.
Angel horse.
Griffin.
Hippogriff.
Winged bull.
Flying buffalo.
Bird-bear.
Air-going elephant.
Vasa Mortis.
Winged camel.
Flying crustacean.
Bird-beasts--miscellaneous.
Bird with crocodile head.
Flying ape.
Flying fox.
Sphinx.
Harpy.
Siren.
Siren in mermaid form.
Drowning man rescued by siren.
Man suckled by siren.
Gold thrown on shore by siren.
Siren's song causes sleep.
Man with bird's head.
Garuda-bird.
" Finngбlkn", bird with a man's
head.
Parent of all fishes.
Leviathan.
Flying fish.
Mythical octopus.
Mythical eel.
Mythical shark.
Horned water-monster.
Sea horse.
Sea cow.
Three sea-cows: one red, one white, one black.
Sea-cat.
Seal-man.
Monster half-man, half-fish.
Mermaid.
Mermaids are like fishes in the water, like men on land.
Woman from water world.
Mermaids from Pharoah's children.
Mermaid marries man.
Mermaid has son by human father.
Mermaids tear their mortal lovers to pieces.
Mermaid leads people astray.
Mermaid appears at midnight, entices people into water.
Mermaid appears once each year, sings in choir, entices young man to follow her.
Mermaid captures a maiden.
Mermaid sits on knight's bedpost.
Mermaid has human midwife.
Mermaid warns of bad weather.
Mermaid prophesies.
Mermaid cannot pass through ice.
Appearance of mermaid.
Mermaid's hair reaches her waist.
Mermaid has wooly hair.
Mermaid has large breasts.
Mermaid half-beautiful, half-monstrous.
Giant mermaid.
Skin of mermaid.
Mermaid has white skin.
Mermaid has brown skin.
Mermaid swallows man.
Mermaid's singing causes sleep.
When mermaid appears.
Mermaid appears at midnight.
Mermaid appears once each year.
Miscellaneous actions of mermaid.
Mermaid asks captain to move boat which blocks entrance to her dwelling.
Mermaid is washed up on beach.
Sight of mermaid bathing makes man immortal.
Mermaid gives mortals gold from sea bottom.
Giant mermaid (man) cast ashore.
Mermaid sings divinely in church (before enticing man away).
Mermaid appears as omen of catastrophe.
Curse by mermaid.
Mermaid ruins seducer of her adopted daughter.
Mermaid prevents raising of sunken church bell.
Mermaid captured.
Mermaid caught by fishermen.
Mermaid lives for three hundred years under lake.
Merman.
Merman marries maiden.
Merman demands princess.
Harp music makes merman restore stolen bride.
Merman demands cattle as offering.
Youth takes service with merman.
Merman teaches music.
Merman attacked by putting steel in the water.
Merman caught by fisherman (released).
Merman lays hands on side of canoe.
Fish with human face.
Mythical serpent.
Naga.
Plumed serpent.
Horned snake.
Sky-traveling snake.
Sea-serpent.
Sea-serpent dilates and contracts.
Lake-serpent (monster).
Lake-serpent (monster) in form of woman.
Serpent causes flood.
Serpent is immortal.
Other mythical reptiles.
Mythical spider.
Mythical crustacean.
Mythical crab.
Vegetable lamb.
Vegetable lamb born from melons (as from eggs).
Marine lamb.
Beast with human head and shape of smith's bellows.
Mythical frog.
Mythical animals--miscellaneous.
Mythical salamander.
Mythical worm.
Treasure found in slain helpful animal.
Magic animal supplies treasure.
Animals with members of precious metal (jewels).
Bird with golden head.
Bird with wings of silver.
Bird with golden feet.
Treasure-hog.
Boar with golden bristles.
Ram with golden fleece.
Hind with golden horns.
Stag with golden antlers and silver feet.
Stag with gold and silver on horns and neck, and a silver bell.
Monster (whale) with golden teeth.
Fish with gold and silver heads.
Serpent with jewel in head.
Cow with silver horns.
Big ox with gold and silver in the horns.
Mongoose with golden hair and silver ears.
Animal of precious metal (jewels).
Golden bird.
Golden hawk.
Golden peacock.
Golden goose.
Golden horse.
Golden deer.
Golden fish.
Fish of silver.
Golden calf.
Silver calf.
Golden serpent.
Golden dog.
Golden crab.
Treasure-producing animals.
Treasure-producing turkey.
Magic bird produces unlimited food.
Gold-producing ram.
Gold-producing serpent.
Grateful snake gives gold piece daily.
Treasure-giving goat.
Gold-producing lion.
Magic jewel obtained from elephant.
Treasure received from tiger.
Treasure-dropping animals.
Gold-producing ass.
Cow drops gold dung.
Pearl-dropping cow.
Gold-producing dog.
Gold-making deer.
Gold-making bird.
Magic tortoise fed with salt gives pearls.
Treasure-laying animals.
Treasure-laying bird.
Animal giving treasure as milk.
Goat giving coins instead of milk.
Animal spitting (vomiting) treasure.
Fish with coin in mouth.
Silver and gold run from cod's mouth.
Serpent with jewel in his mouth.
Grateful snake spits out lump of gold for his rescuer.
Snake vomits jewels.
Dog vomits gold and silver.
Animal laying treasure in water.
Serpent lays treasure in lake.
Animal producing treasure by bite.
Serpent's bite produces ornaments and clothes.
Animal producing treasure at death.
When destructive bird is killed, barn is found full of gold.
Animal bearing precious ornaments.
Hind with gold chain on neck.
Deer with string of pearls around its neck.
Animal lying on treasure.
Animal with treasure inside it.
Fish with ingot of gold inside it.
Animal as patron of wealth.
Serpent as patron of wealth.
Treasure animals--miscellaneous.
Magic spider catches pearls.
Centipede plays at night with pearl.
Treasure-producing serpent's crown.
Treasure-producing parts of bird.
Treasure-producing bird-heart.
Treasure-producing bird-head.
Treasure from bird's feathers.
Treasure-producing part of sheep.
Treasure-producing sheepskin.
Animal with horn of plenty.
Ear-cornucopia.
Wing-cornucopia.
Animal with tail of plenty.
Treasure-producing parts of animals--miscellaneous.
Dog (whose skin) turns water to wine (mead).
Treasure produced by goat's entrails.
Armadillo with silver plate over its forehead.
Animals have second sight.
Beasts with magic wisdom.
Dog with magic wisdom.
Infallible hunting-dog.
Fox as alchemist.
Cat with magic wisdom.
Ass (mule) with magic wisdom.
Ox with magic wisdom.
Lion with magic wisdom.
Bird with magic wisdom.
Wise magpie.
Wise golden peacock.
Wise owl.
Prophesying parrot.
Wise eagle (in Yggdrasil).
Bird as adviser.
Birds tell a secret.
Bird reveals druidic secrets.
Birds as reporters of sights and sounds.
Bird can recite sacred writings.
Bird announces time for sunrise and sunset.
Wise mother eagle distinguishes between stupid and intelligent eaglets.
Bird summarizes history.
Cock helper advises of coming enemy.
Parrot scout sent to enemy camp to ascertain strength.
Wise reptile.
Wise serpent.
Serpent's wisdom from eating from tree of knowledge.
Wise fish.
Salmon as oldest and wisest of animals.
Salmon of knowledge.
Amphibian with magic knowledge.
Frog with magic knowledge.
Bird of truth.
Truth-telling owl.
Bird reveals murder.
Crows reveal the killing of mare.
Bird reveals treachery.
Bird betrays woman's infidelity.
Bird reveals dead rider.
Peacock's feathers ruffled in presence of poison.
Bird betrays hiding-place of the Virgin.
Birds reveal innocence of suspect.
Bird warns to hurry.
Truth-speaking cow.
Truth-speaking horse.
Truth-telling ass (mule).
Ass alone knows where hidden wind can be found.
Horse warns hero of danger.
Horse reveals treachery.
Speaking horse-head.
Horse refuses to carry one who speaks falsehood.
Horses refuse to remain with owner who has been cursed by clerics.
Truth-telling dog.
Dog betrays woman's infidelity.
Truth-telling dog tells of incest.
Dog betrays murder.
Dog as animal of warning.
Dog warns of coming.
Dog chooses between opposing tribes.
Dog returns from dead to clear master of murder.
Truth-telling cat.
Truth-telling deer.
Prophetic domestic beasts.
Prophetic goat.
Prophetic horse.
Horse weeps for master's (saint's) approaching death.
Ass's behavior predicts the weather.
Dog with magic sight.
Dog (transformed man) prophesies coming of enemy.
Prophetic cow.
Prophetic wild beasts.
Prophetic fox.
Prophetic jackal.
Jackal gives warning.
Prophetic hart.
Prophetic lion.
Prophetic bird.
Swan as prophetic bird.
Magpie as prophetic bird.
Owl as prophetic bird.
Raven as prophetic bird.
Hen as prophetic bird.
Dove as prophetic bird.
Eagle as prophetic bird.
Crow as prophetic bird.
Crows announce coming of hero to otherworld.
Bird gives warning.
Warning crow.
Warning peacock.
Warning parrot.
Falcon saves master from drinking poisoned water.
Golden cock warns against attack.
Captured goose warns tortoise: released in gratitude.
Bird describes doomsday.
Prophetic fish.
King of fishes prophesies hero's birth.
Prophetic reptile.
Prophetic tortoise.
Prophetic snake.
Prophetic worm.
Animals furnish omens.
Beasts furnish omens.
Beasts of good omen.
Beasts of ill-omen.
Fox as beast of ill-omen.
Cat as beast of ill-omen.
Mouse as beast of ill-omen.
Jackal as beast of ill-omen.
Birds furnish omens.
Bird of good omen.
Raven as bird of good omen.
Eagle as omen of victory.
Bird of ill-omen.
Crow as bird of ill-omen.
Gull as bird of ill-omen.
Raven as bird of ill-omen.
Owl as bird of ill-omen.
Eagle as bird of ill-omen.
Vulture as bird of ill-omen.
Peacock as bird of ill-omen.
Other animals furnish omens.
Divination by fall of house-lizard.
Other animals furnish good omens.
Crickets as good omens.
Bees (ants) leave honey on lips of infant to show future greatness.
Other animals furnish bad omens.
Crickets as bad omens.
Animal determines road to be taken.
Beast determines road to be taken.
Horses determine road to be taken.
Horses travel between clerics without guidance.
Horse stops where murder has occurred.
Horse allowed to go as it pleases, finds unknown person.
Mare with foal left behind finds road home.
Ass determines road to be taken.
Ass carries usurer's body to the gallows instead of to the church.
Baalam's ass.
Bull determines road to be taken.
Cow determines road to be taken.
Fox determines road to be taken.
Elephant determines road to be taken.
Camel determines road to be taken.
Dog indicates road to be taken.
Bird determines road to be taken.
Bird shows way by dropping feathers every seven steps.
Birds show way to otherworld.
Bird shows way by singing.
Animal selects unknown person.
Dog indicates pregnant woman, adulteress, etc.
Fly indicates successful suitor.
Hawk lighting on man points out criminal.
Dog indicates hidden treasure.
Dog indicates other hidden objects.
Animal as soothsayer.
Ox as soothsayer.
Ant as soothsayer.
Fish-eagle as soothsayer.
Location determined by halting of an animal.
Building site determined by halting of animal.
Building site determined by other action of animal.
City founded on spot where cow lies down.
Village founded on spot when cock crows, dog barks, and mithian bellows.
Location of settlement at place a cow stops and where milk flows by itself.
Birds indicate the place where a town (castle) is to be built.
Pursued animal indicates where city is to be built.
Animal determines burial place of saint.
Neighing of horse indicates important spot.
Animal leads searchers.
Whistling of bird leads searcher.
Miscellaneous oracular animals.
Birds drop quill when man requires pen.
Horse lies down when grain of wheat falls from load.
Cleric goes with saint whom his cow follows.
Vulture's chicks will not eat dead hero's leg, since they know he has been treacherously murdered.
Wisdom from serpent.
Power of soothsaying from serpents' licking ears.
Fortune learned from serpent.
Wisdom from eating serpent.
Power of seeing whether the dead go to heaven or hell is gained from serpent.
Wisdom from fish.
Supernatural knowledge from eating magic fish.
Wisdom from other animal.
Wisdom from fox.
Wisdom from eating fox's heart.
Animal languages learned from animal.
Animal languages learned from serpent (not eaten).
Animal languages learned by having ears licked by serpent.
Animal languages from stolen serpent's crown.
Cobra writes letters on prince's tongue: "Having heard all kinds of creatures talk, you will understand them."
Animal languages learned from frog.
Magic chicken (hen, cock).
Demi-coq.
Magic cock carries great loads in his ear (load of grain, fox, tiger, bees, wasps, etc., also fire and water).
Demi-coq crows in king's body, when the king eats him.
Magic fighting cock.
Magic bird.
Magic bird petrifies those who approach.
Magic bird's song.
Magic bird's song brings sleep.
Magic bird's song dispels grief.
Magic bird collects seeds.
Bird with magic bones and feathers.
Magic falcon gets water of life for hero.
Magic birds lure hunters to certain places.
Magic birds chained in couples.
Magic osprey (transformed man) produces lightning.
Magic birds cause hosts to sleep by shaking wings.
Black birds.
Innumerable birds (black birds) fly into and out of tower (steeple) of fire.
Bird steals island.
Magic fish.
Magic salmon carries hero over water.
Magic tunny (grateful); carries out hero's wish.
Magic reptile.
Magic serpent.
Serpent as deceiver in paradise.
Magic snake can compress himself to minute size and expand to giant size.
Magic amphibia.
Magic toad.
Magic toad under king's bed causes sickness.
Magic frog.
Magic sea-turtle sucks men to the bottom.
Magic crustacean.
Magic crab.
Magic quadrupeds--felidae.
Magic cat.
Cat with remarkable powers of sight.
Magic tiger.
Magic quadrupeds--canidae.
Magic dog.
Toy (lap) dogs.
Magic lap-dog.
Magic dog transformed person.
Magic dog transformed supernatural being.
Magic dog vomits any liquor required of him.
Magic hostile bitches issue from elf-mound.
Dog sight of which renders game helpless.
Magic whelp kills hound by springing down its throat.
Dog that is hound by night and sheep by day.
Dog that is hound by day and flame of fire by night.
Magic dog fragrant.
Magic bitches (in human form) enchanted by fairy music.
Magic brazen dog.
Magic bear.
Magic quadrupeds--rodentia.
Magic mouse.
Magic mouse to be flayed.
Magic mouse causes disease.
Magic quadrupeds--ungulata.
Magic horse.
Horse (mule) with magic speed.
Horse so fast fly cannot light on him.
Horse as swift as a bird.
Swiftest horse on earth.
Magic horse goes underground.
Magic horse from water world.
Magic horse travels on sea or land.
Breath of magic horse blows off or sucks in those he pursues.
Flight on magic horse.
Flight on invisible horse.
Magic horse avenges hero's death.
Immortal horse.
Magic horse mysteriously recognized by everyone.
Magic horse makes prodigious jump.
Magic invulnerable horse.
Magic horse goes through fire.
Magic cow (ox, bull).
Magic white cow.
Magic white cows with red ears.
Magic cow.
Magic cow gives extraordinary milk.
Magic cow gives red milk.
Magic cow gives impossible quantity of milk.
Magic soldier-producing cow.
Cow grants all desires.
Magic ox.
Magic ox from unusual sexual union of animals.
Magic cow (ox, bull) from water world.
Magic bull.
Magic bull to be flayed.
Magic bull can be milked.
Indra sends down buffalo whose milk is offered to the saints.
Magic ox.
Magic calf.
Magic swine.
Magic swine issue from elf-mound.
Magic swine disappear underground.
Magic red swine.
Magic swine transformed person.
Herd of magic swine that cannot be counted twice with the same result.
Magic boar.
Magic boar drowns houndpack.
Magic pig.
Magic invisible pig.
Magic pig turns water into wine for nine days.
Skin of magic pig heals wounds.
Magic deer.
Magic goat.
Magic fighting goat.
Magic sheep.
Wethers leap from well; payment for saint's baptism.
Animal as magician.
Weasel as conjurer.
Ox-demon as magician.
Tiger as magician.
Rat gives magic medicine.
Hedgehog builds castle.
Bird as magician.
Serpent as magician.
Magic animal killed.
Magic birds die when owner is killed.
Magic pig burned to prevent resuscitation.
Rain-withholding deer killed: rain released.
Treasure-producing bird killed to please a paramour.
Otter carries flaming wood in mouth.
Magic animal used by hero in contest grows bigger with every round.
Animals with human traits.
Person frightened by animals successively replying to his remarks.
Talking animal or object refuses to talk on demand.
Formerly animals and man spoke the same language.
Animal uses human speech.
Animals speak, praising God, on the night of Christ's Nativity.
Speaking beasts--domestic.
Speaking sheep.
Speaking ram.
Ram stung by hornet on Sabbath says, "Damn!" Pious owner resolves to sell it next day.
Speaking goat.
Speaking horse.
Speaking ass.
Speaking mule.
Speaking hog.
Boar sings song.
Speaking cow.
Speaking ox.
Speaking buffalo.
Speaking bullock.
Speaking yak.
Speaking calf.
Speaking camel.
Speaking dog.
Dog sings song.
Speaking cat.
Speaking beast--wild.
Speaking stag.
Speaking lion.
Speaking tiger.
Speaking jaguar.
Speaking bear.
Speaking wolf.
Speaking fox.
Speaking hare (rabbit).
Speaking sea-beast.
Speaking seal.
Speaking mouse.
Speaking rat.
Speaking monkey.
Speaking bird.
Speaking turkey.
Speaking cock.
Speaking chicken.
Speaking goose.
-Speaking parrot.
Speaking dove.
Speaking raven.
Speaking sparrow.
Speaking vulture.
Speaking crow.
Speaking insects.
Speaking ant.
Speaking bee.
Speaking fish.
Speaking reptile.
Speaking snake (serpent).
Speaking amphibia.
Speaking frog.
Speaking toad.
Animal understands human speech.
All kinds of animals understand the language of heaven.
First animals knew human language.
Fox understands human speech.
Animal whistles (sings, etc.) Singing animal.
Singing cow.
Singing boar.
Singing cat.
Singing dog.
Singing lion.
Singing fox.
Singing frog.
Singing crab.
Crab sings about his captivity.
Singing mouse.
Singing snake.
Singing hippopotamus.
Singing elephant.
Whistling animals.
Whistling toad.
Laughing animal.
Laughing toad.
Weeping animal.
Weeping toad.
Animal languages.
Animals taught one another's language.
Bird language.
Dog language.
Dog language understood by fox.
Fox language.
Frog language.
Serpent language.
Lizard's language.
Insects' language.
Ant language.
Knowledge of animal languages.
Animal language learned.
Animal languages learned from eating animal.
Animal languages learned from eating serpent.
Animal languages learned from eating dragon's heart.
Animal languages learned from eating plant.
Animal languages learned from ghosts (spirits).
Animal languages learned from carrying churchyard mould in hat.
Bird language learned by having ears magically cleansed.
Animal languages learned by exchanging tongues with helpful dragon.
Stone deity (image of) confers upon man powers of understanding animal language.
Language of animals learned by Adam from Eve.
Animal kingdom--quadrupeds.
Kingdom of monkeys.
Kingdom of rats.
Procurator of rats.
Land of lions.
Land of elephants.
Land of mice.
Land of tigers.
Village of wer-tigers.
Kingdom (land) of birds.
Land of pigeons.
Land of peacocks.
Land of parakeets.
Land of parrots.
Kingdom of fishes.
Kingdom of sharks.
Kingdom of insects.
Kingdom of ants.
Kingdom of reptiles.
Kingdom of serpents.
Snake kingdom under the sea.
Kingdom of amphibia.
Community of toads.
Community of frogs.
Parliament of birds.
St. Valentine's Day for bird assembly.
Parliament of fishes.
Council of fishes decide to get rid of men (who eat fish).
School of animals.
Secrets discussed in animal meeting.
Animal parliament elects king.
Animal king chosen as result of a contest.
Election of king of birds.
Election of king of fishes.
Drinking-bout assembly of animals.
Animal council assigns place and work to all.
Bird council assigns place and work to all.
Bird council assigns coats to different birds.
Parliament of animals--miscellaneous.
Election of fox as mediator to appease angry lion.
Bear as king of animals.
Rabbit as king of animals.
Wild man as king of animals.
Lion as king of animals.
Minister of lion-king a crane.
Tortoise as king of animals.
Gazelle as king of animals.
Buffalo as king of animals.
Fox as king of animals.
Dog as king of animals.
Wolf as king of animals.
Camel as king of animals.
Monkey as king of animals.
Tiger as king of animals.
Elephant as king of animals.
Crocodile as king of animals.
King of beasts (quadrupeds).
Various beasts as king of beasts.
King of the various kinds of beasts.
King of lions.
King of monkeys.
King of cats.
King of rats.
King of mice.
King of hares.
King of dogs.
King of tigers.
Newly-born divine twins cared for by mother-of-tigers.
King of jackals.
King of deer.
King of elephants.
King of the boars.
King of antelopes.
King of mongooses.
Man transformed to beast becomes leader of herd.
King of birds.
Various birds as king of birds.
Eagle king of birds.
Wren king of birds.
Wren as "druid of the birds"  (drui йn).
Hornbill king of birds.
Pelican as king of birds.
Shrike as king of birds.
Jackdaw king of birds.
Peacock king of birds.
Owl as king of birds.
Swan as king of birds.
Ziz as king of birds.
King of the various kinds of birds.
King of crows.
King of doves.
King of kites.
King of pigeons.
King of peacocks.
King of quails.
King of sparrows.
King of parrots.
King of geese.
King of swans.
King of vultures.
King of larks.
King of fishes.
Various fishes as king of fishes.
Herring as king of fishes.
Eel as king of fishes.
Shark as king of fishes.
King of various kinds of fishes.
King of salmon.
King of eels.
King of reptiles.
King of serpents (snakes).
Queen of watersnakes.
Serpent king resides in lake.
Gigantic hood of serpent king.
Four royal families of snakes.
Naga-king.
King of lizards.
King of amphibians.
King of frogs.
Turtle king.
King of insects.
King of ants.
King (sultan) of flies.
King of bees.
King of dragons.
Animals praise or worship.
Animals rejoice at Christ's birth.
Animals worship infant Jesus.
Animals speak to one another at Christmas.
Cock crows, "Christus natus est." Cows speak to one another on Christmas.
Cows kneel in stable at midnight of Eve of Old Christmas.
Animals honor saint (cleric).
Animals sing in honor of a saint.
Fish perform races as welcome to saint.
Wolves lick saint's shoes.
Fly habitually buzzes when cleric returns from matins.
Birds beat waters with wings as welcome to saint.
Deer lick saint's tomb daily at noon.
Water-monsters lick saint's feet.
Cow licks saint's feet.
Wild animals as saint's disciples.
Fish come in great numbers to the bank of a stream in order to hear Anthony of Padua preach.
Sea-monster honors saint above all others.
Birds lament saint's departure.
Cow gives twelve measures of milk for the twelve apostles of Ireland.
Brilliantly white cow comes to be milked for infant saint.
Lion lies down at feet of saint.
Birds take part at saint's funeral.
Animals sing songs of praise.
Birds in otherworld sing religious songs.
Animals pray.
Beast invokes saint's protection.
Wild beast seeks protection of saint against hunters.
Animals fast.
Animals keep religious precepts.
Animal makes religious oath.
Wolf swears by God.
Animals observe sacred revelation.
Singing of birds ceases at time of revelation.
Animals make religious responses.
Animals lick Christ-child.
Animal churchmen.
Animal monks.
Birds (in otherworld) call at canonical hours.
Priest of snakes.
Animals perform offices of church.
Snakes have mass.
Wolves have annual (church) feast.
Fox fasts as penance.
Spider performs penance.
The deer with a cross carried between their horns.
Deer with candles on the tops of their antlers.
Miracle wrought for animal.
Animal as servant of saint.
Animal deluded by saint.
Birds nest in saint's hand (cowl).
Birds perch on hands and head of saint.
St. Anthony's pigs.
Deer makes its horns available as a bookholder to a saint.
Deer furnish bier and bear saint's corpse to church.
Domesticated wolves.
Wolves guard saint's cattle like watchdogs when he is absent.
Obedience of the feathered creatures to the commands of saint.
Birds protect saint and serve him.
Boar serves saint.
Boar guards holy man's swine.
Boar makes music for holy man.
Boar acts as physician for holy man: licks his wounded feet.
Tiger sweeps temple for saint.
Saint's prayer causes wolf to bring back child.
Stags plow for saint.
Fly, wren, fox live with cleric.
Wolf returns sheep stolen from saint.
Whale raises back so that voyaging clerics can land to celebrate.
Animal funeral.
Miscellaneous religious animals.
Ass insists upon payment of tithes.
Sabbath-keeping cow.
Hog will not accept food from excommunicated men.
Bees build church of wax to contain consecrated host.
Animals refrain from spoiling consecrated food.
Bird's wings drip blood when birds hear of Day of Judgment.
Two groups of animals make peace treaty.
War of birds and quadrupeds.
Bat in war of birds and quadrupeds.
Tame elephant not accepted by wild brethren.
War between domestic and wild animals.
War between other groups of animals.
War between toads and frogs.
War between elephants and ants.
War between crows and owls.
War between birds and reptiles.
War between groups of birds.
War between birds and eagle.
War of monkeys and grasshoppers.
War between serpents and storks.
War between lion and other animals.
Single combat between animals.
Fight between animal and houndpack.
Fight between eagle and fish.
Duel of buffalo and tiger.
Fight between snake and millipede.
Fight between ape and tortoise.
Animals continually rend each other.
Animals fight.
Thirsty cattle fight over well.
Animal allies.
Alliance of dog and wolf.
Alliance of sheep and dog.
Alliance of raven and crow.
Alliance of cock and seafowl.
Animal soldiers.
Army of apes.
Cavalry of dogs.
War-dogs.
War-elephants.
Sorcerer's army of magic animals.
Army of birds.
Army of quails.
Army of mice.
Army of snakes.
Army of snakes and scorpions.
Insect army.
Army of hornets.
Army of locusts.
Army of wasps.
Army of tigers.
Army of cows.
Army of cats.
Army of boars.
Army of hyenas.
Lawsuit between the owl and kite.
Lawsuit between owl and mouse.
Animals as plaintiffs.
Parrot and sparrow argue right to inherit property left by man.
Grain as damages for injury to cat.
Animals ring bell and demand justice.
Animals as defendants in court.
Lawsuit against animals.
Animal tried for crime.
Horse tried for crime.
Animal as judge.
Animal punished.
Animal executed for crime.
Horse executed for crime.
Fox executed for thefts.
Wolf executed for thefts.
Man hangs wolf who has eaten sheep left in his charge.
Wolves and wild pigs condemned to death in lion's court for killing and eating sheep.
Excommunication of animal.
Animals eating corpse of holy man die.
Animal's revenge for being criticized by a bird: nest destroyed.
Animal jury.
Captured animal ransoms self.
Covenant with animals.
Saint makes covenant with wolves.
Attitudes of animals toward oath.
Beast wedding.
Wedding of fox and hyena.
Wedding of mouse.
Wedding of mouse and weasel.
Wedding of mouse and cockroach.
Wedding of wolf.
Wedding of lynx.
Wedding of marten.
Wedding of pig.
Wedding of ass.
Wedding of squirrel.
Wedding of cat.
The cat as vixen's husband.
Wedding of monkey.
Wedding of rat.
Wedding of rat and cockroach.
Bird wedding.
Wedding of turkey and peacock.
Wedding of eagle with another bird.
Wedding of eagle and kite.
Wedding of lark and another bird.
Wedding of lark and nightingale.
Wedding of lark and cuckoo.
Wedding of lark and sparrow.
Wedding of lark and pigeon.
Wedding of lark and spotted woodpecker.
Wedding of lark and finch.
Wedding of owl.
Wedding of owl and another bird.
Wedding of owl and cat.
Wedding of finch with another bird.
Wedding of goldfinch with another bird.
Wedding of bullfinch with another bird.
Wedding of titmouse with another bird.
Wedding of wren with another bird.
Wedding of sparrow and another bird.
Wedding of blackbird with another bird.
Wedding of thrush with another bird.
Wedding of woodpecker with another bird.
Wedding of magpie with another bird.
Wedding of heathcock with another bird.
Wedding of raven with another bird.
Wedding of quail with another bird.
Wedding of hoopoe with another bird.
Wedding of cuckoo with another bird.
Wedding of pigeon with another bird.
Wedding of cock and hen.
Wedding of crow and titmouse.
Crow refuses to marry titmouse, since she is 100 years old.
The courtship of the stork and the crane.
Wedding of fish.
Wedding of crab.
Wedding of carp.
Wedding of amphibians.
Wedding of frog.
Wedding of frog and mouse.
Wedding of toad.
Wedding of insects.
Wedding of ant.
Wedding of cricket.
Wedding of grasshopper.
Wedding of fly.
Wedding of flea.
Wedding of butterfly.
Wedding of wasp.
Wedding of cockroach and rat.
Plant wedding.
Wedding of garlic and onion.
Swine march like soldiers.
Animal as messenger.
Animal tried out as messenger.
Unwelcome bird (insect) proves to be messenger.
Bird as messenger.
Bird as letter carrier.
Raven as messenger.
Ravens carry message to enemies.
Raven as devil's messenger.
Crow as messenger.
Dove as messenger.
Falcon as messenger.
Goose as messenger.
Parrot as messenger.
Heron as messenger.
Vulture as messenger.
Eagle as messenger.
Hawk as messenger.
Swallow as messenger.
Pigeon as messenger.
Domestic beast as messenger.
Horse as messenger.
Dog as messenger.
Wild beast as messenger.
Fox as messenger.
Hare (rabbit) as messenger.
Hares carry taxes to court.
Other animals as messenger.
Bee as messenger from heaven to earth.
Snake as messenger.
Whale as messenger.
Animal as servant to man.
Animals with human child as slave.
Animals leave wicked and go to pious master.
Animal as shepherd for man.
Baboon as shepherd for man.
Dog as shepherd for man.
Animal as domestic servant.
Monkey as domestic servant.
Bird as domestic servant.
Bird servant to deity.
Lion as domestic servant.
Doe furnishes man milk.
Stags plow for man.
Wild oxen plow for man.
Oxen draw saint's plow around whole district in one day.
Tiger plows for man.
Dog plows for man.
Bird sings to console man.
Black cat as servant of giant.
Thief lives alone with 20 cats that help him keep intruders away.
Otters supply man with fish and burning wood daily.
Dog as guardian of treasure.
Animal as farm laborer.
Frog works in fields for benefactor.
Chicken as laborer.
Rat servants cut jungle down, till soil for master.
Dog made king.
Tiger carries load of wood for saint.
Serpent as saint's whip.
Ass as tollkeeper.
Animals dance.
Animals dance for king.
Dance of cats.
Dance of frog(s).
Dance of tigers.
Dance of lions.
Dance of nagas (snake men).
Animals in business relations.
Fox as divider of dying man's gifts.
Animal handles money.
Monkey's money stolen.
Monkey buys liquor.
Dog sells rotten peas on market: punished by other animals.
Animals hold fairs.
Parrot transacts business of trader.
Rabbit and elephant partners on trading expedition.
Tortoise and dog partners as thieves.
Animal drives carriage.
Mouse makes boat of bread-crust.
Animals go a-journeying.
Animal journeys to Rome.
Musical animals.
Bull lows musically.
Animal plays musical instrument.
Bird plays timpan.
Toad and chameleon play drum and xylophone.
Transformed women enchanted by music.
Women transformed to bitches enchanted by music.
Animal plays game.
Monkey plays chess.
Other animals with human traits--miscellaneous.
Animal takes revenge on man.
Eagle takes revenge on man.
Animals dispute.
Owls and crows dispute over merits of night or day vision.
Animals discover liquor and get intoxicated.
Bear asks boy to stay with her cubs.
Sympathetic animals.
Animal mutilates self to express sympathy.
Animal fasts to express sympathy.
Birds weep when man cuts off his hand.
Animal physician.
Festival of animals.
Animals build bridge.
Tigers build bridge.
Animals cultivate crops.
Animal christening.
Faithful animal.
Faithful animal at master's grave dies of hunger.
Faithful dog follows master's dead body when cast into river.
Faithful dog helps open mistress' grave--dies on it.
Faithful animal doesn't allow anybody to come near to master's corpse.
Faithful animal at master's grave avenges his murder.
Faithful animal plans suicide when it thinks master dead.
Faithful horse follows dead master to grave.
Faithful horse lays his head on slain master's breast.
Faithful horse weeps for coming death of saint.
Faithful horse weeps tears of blood for master.
Faithful horse joins in keen at hero's death.
Faithful horse lays his head in lap of dead master's wife.
Faithful horse allows only its master to catch and ride it.
Faithful horse lies down in order that its mutilated master can mount it.
Faithful horse refuses to go before its master mounts it, even when already loaded with two chests with gold.
Faithful horse dies together with its master.
Faithful horse fights together with its master.
Faithful animals resuscitate master.
Faithful cattle fight at master's grave until they cast their horns.
Faithful cattle shed horns in grief for death of man.
Faithful cow refuses to move for grief at master's death.
Faithful cows lose milk at king's death.
Faithful lapdog dies when mistress dies.
Faithful dog helps open mistress' grave and dies on it.
Faithful lion follows man who saved him.
Congenital helpful animal.
Helpful animal foster brother.
Helpful animals obtained by purchase or gift.
Helpful animals a gift.
Helpful animals obtained by exchange.
Helpful animal(s) bequeathed to hero.
Helpful animal purchased.
Helpful dogs obtained by purchase.
Helpful, strong horse caught.
Helpful animal an enchanted person.
Helpful animal reincarnation of parent.
Helpful animal reincarnation of murdered child.
Helpful animal brothers-in-law.
Animal helpful after being conquered.
Abused and pampered horses.
Helpful bird hatched by hero.
Helpful animals transformed from other animals.
Helpful animal otherwise acquired.
Helpful animal sent by God (or a god).
Helpful animal acquired as reward for vigil.
Helpful animal demands food.
Hero feeds own flesh to helpful animal.
Helpful birds demand food.
Animal bribed for help.
Animal bribed with food.
Helpful animal killed through misunderstanding.
Faithful falcon killed through misunderstanding.
Faithful horse killed through misunderstanding.
Llewellyn and his dog.
Woman slays faithful mongoose which has saved her child.
Faithful dog killed by overhasty master: thinks mistakenly he has returned home against orders.
Faithful parrot killed by mistake.
Too watchful dog killed.
Helpful animal killed by hero's enemy.
Man attempts to kill faithful serpent at wife's instigation.
Treacherous wife forces husband to kill helpful dog.
Life of helpful animal demanded as cure for feigned sickness.
Unsuccessful attempt by enemy to kill helpful animal.
Wife demands magic parrot who has accused her.
Faithful animal killed in battle.
A small animal (hare, bitch) gives timely warnings to the hero about the trap prepared by his enemy.
Helpful cow to be killed because of refusal to help stepdaughter.
Helpful animal killed (threatened) by ungrateful hero.
Weapons made from bones of helpful horse.
Death of helpful animal--miscellaneous.
Truth-telling dog killed so as to hide murder.
Helpful animal's injunctions disobeyed.
Cat leaves house when report is made of death of one of his companions.
Large reward given for return of helpful animal.
Animals grateful for rescue from pit.
Animal grateful for rescue from drowning.
Animal grateful for rescue from net.
Lion is freed from net by mouse.
Animal grateful for other rescue.
Animal grateful for rescue from trap.
Animal grateful for rescue from fire.
Insect having fallen on back grateful for being turned over.
Bird grateful for being saved from attacking serpent.
Animal grateful for rescue from mud.
Animal grateful for rescue of its young.
Bird grateful for rescue of its young.
Animal grateful for rescue of its mate.
Animal grateful to hero for preventing destruction of nest.
Ant grateful for preventing destruction of nest.
Animal grateful for release of relative.
Animal grateful for ransom from captivity.
Small animal released from jaws of large one: grateful.
Lion spared mouse: mouse grateful.
Lion spares fly: fly grateful.
Other animals grateful for release.
Lion rescued from snake: thankful.
Release of animal by hunter (fisher).
Fish returned to water: grateful.
Grateful fish grants mad hero his wish: to impregnate a princess.
Fish grateful for being transferred from tank to river.
Frog returned to spring: grateful.
Bird released: grateful.
Eagle released: grateful.
Squirrel released: grateful and helpful.
Monkey released: grateful.
Rat released: grateful.
Leopard released: grateful.
Turtle released: grateful.
Serpent released: grateful.
Jackal released: grateful.
Wasp released from vase full of honey: grateful.
Grateful hyena leads lost hermit from wilderness as reward for his help.
Thorn removed from lion's paw (Androcles and the Lion).
Wolf fetches a man to remove thorn from his children's paws.
Thorn removed from monkey's tail.
Animal grateful for removal of bone lodged in its throat.
Man called by animal for help to his cubs in danger.
Saint cures the blind young ones of a hyena or wolf by the sign of the cross and the application of his saliva.
Serpent relieved from sand blown in eyes: grateful.
Tigress grateful for opening of abscess.
Tiger grateful for woman assisting tigress as midwife.
Cobra grateful for cure of ulcer.
Animal grateful for food.
Child feeds snake from its milk-bottle.
Cobra grateful to prince for milk.
Snake grateful because man feeds her young snakes milk.
Snake grateful for pouring milk into its hole.
Child shares food with toad.
Hero kills horse to feed young ravens.
Animals given water to drink: grateful.
Hero divides spoil for animals.
Animals grateful for being given appropriate food.
Animals grateful for shelter.
Cow grateful for being milked.
Buffaloes grateful for care of their calves.
Buffaloes grateful for being cleaned and combed.
Cows grateful for hero's housekeeping for them.
Helpful horse.
Helpful water-horse.
Helpful ass.
Helpful mule.
Helpful camel.
Helpful cow.
Helpful bull.
Helpful ox.
Helpful calf.
Helpful buffalo.
Helpful bison.
Helpful bullock.
Helpful steer.
Helpful sheep.
Helpful goat.
Helpful hog.
Helpful boar.
Helpful dog.
Helpful cat.
Helpful wild beasts--felidae.
Helpful leopard.
Helpful lion.
Helpful tiger.
Helpful panther.
Helpful wild beasts--mustelidae.
Helpful otter.
Helpful badger.
Helpful ichneumon.
Helpful mongoose.
Helpful wild beasts--canidae and other carnivora.
Helpful fox.
Helpful jackal.
Helpful wolf.
Helpful bear.
Helpful seal.
Helpful hyena.
Helpful wild beasts--rodentia.
Helpful rat.
Helpful bandicoot.
Helpful mouse.
Helpful squirrel.
Helpful rabbit (hare).
Helpful wild beasts--primata.
Helpful monkey.
Helpful ape.
Helpful wild beasts--ungulata.
Helpful deer (stag, doe).
Helpful antelope.
Helpful elephant.
Helpful gazelle.
Helpful wild hog (boar).
Helpful hippopotamus.
Helpful wild ox.
Helpful wild beasts--miscellaneous.
Helpful hedgehog.
Helpful mole.
Helpful bat.
Helpful birds--passeriformes.
Helpful lark.
Helpful nightingale.
Helpful wren.
Helpful crow.
Helpful raven.
Helpful magpie.
Helpful sparrow.
Helpful birds--falconiformes.
Helpful vulture.
Helpful falcon.
Helpful eagle.
Helpful hawk.
Helpful kite (bird).
Helpful birds--charidriiformes.
Helpful dove.
Helpful pigeon.
Helpful birds--coraciiformes.
Helpful woodpecker.
Helpful owl.
Helpful birds--ciconiiformes.
Helpful sea-bird.
Helpful heron.
Helpful crane.
Helpful stork.
Helpful birds--miscellaneous.
Helpful grebe.
Helpful swan.
Helpful goose.
Helpful wild goose.
Helpful duck.
Helpful wild duck.
Helpful cock.
Helpful chicken.
Helpful guinea-fowl.
Helpful turkey.
Helpful cuckoo.
Helpful parrot.
Helpful paroquet.
Helpful pheasant.
Small fish as helper.
Helpful shark.
Helpful whale.
Helpful dolphin.
Helpful salmon.
Helpful pike.
Helpful eel.
Helpful octopus.
Helpful insects--hymenoptera.
Helpful ant.
Helpful termite.
Helpful bee.
Helpful bumblebee.
Helpful wasp.
Helpful hornet.
Helpful insects--coleoptera.
Helpful firefly.
Helpful dungbeetle.
Helpful insects--diptera.
Helpful fly.
Fly warns saint against devil hidden in a cup with liquor.
Helpful flea.
Helpful insects--lepidoptera.
Helpful caterpillar.
Helpful insects--hemiptera.
Helpful insects--orthoptera.
Helpful locusts.
Helpful cricket.
Helpful insects--miscellaneous.
Helpful spider.
Helpful reptile.
Helpful serpent.
Helpful lizard.
Helpful crocodile.
Helpful worm.
Helpful centipede.
Helpful angleworm.
Helpful turtle (tortoise).
Helpful amphibian.
Helpful frog.
Helpful toad.
Helpful crustacean.
Helpful crab.
Helpful lobster.
Helpful mythical animal.
Helpful dragon.
Animal gives part of body as talisman for summoning its aid.
Buffalo give hero horns for summoning them.
Merry horn and angry horn for summoning buffalo.
Kite teaches rhyme by which he may be summoned for help.
Animal gives jewel for summoning him when in need of help.
Birds give hero feather to burn if he is in difficulty.
Magic object received from animal.
Magic object received from animal brother-in-law.
Animal tells hero where to find magic object.
Magic song received from fish.
Animal as healer.
Snake as healer.
Snake creeps into man's mouth and heals him.
Snake heals mutilated maiden with magic herbs.
Helpful hedgehog forces snake to suck out poison from bitten raja.
Pig as healer.
Magic pig heals wound its skin touches.
Magic pig heals wounds by licking.
Faithful horse pushes sleep thorn out of its master's head, so that he awakes.
Rat cures man of wound.
Bird heals man.
Vulture cures blindness.
Medicine shown by animal.
Remedy learned from overhearing animal meeting.
Animal fetches remedy for man.
Grateful fox fetches fox liver as remedy.
Bee fetches balm from heaven to restore hero's speech.
Snake gives man antidote for poison.
Resuscitation by animals.
Sight restored by animal.
Animal warns of fatal danger.
Animal warns against poison.
Horse advises hero not to wash in water (as his false wife told him to) or his eyes will pop out.
Animal warns man against drinking.
Animal warns against accident.
Eagle saves man from falling wall.
Animals warn against attack.
Dogs warn against witch.
Cackling geese spread alarm.
Flea's bite alarms king.
Prince awakened by fly on his nose in time to save himself from enemy.
Dog warns of pursuit.
Owl warns other birds from limed net.
Animals warn wife of husband's danger.
Owl saves man from plunging over cliff.
Birds warn of enemy's approach.
Animal saves man from death sentence.
Serpent shows condemned man how to save prince's life.
Kite steals jewels and thus saves condemned man.
Woman slandered as adulteress is thrown into lion pit.
Eagle carries off condemned child.
Circling cranes carry away girl.
Animal saves man from pursuer.
Spider-web over hole saves fugitive.
Whale fights monster pursuing saint.
Great clam fights hero's pursuer.
Animal overcomes man's adversary.
Animals overcome man's adversary by force.
Dogs kill attacking cannibal (dragon).
Dogs rescue fleeing master from tree refuge.
Dogs break bonds and kill master's attacker.
Cat kills attacking rat.
Wolf defends master's child against serpent.
Dog defends master's child against animal assailant.
Helpful buffaloes tramp hero's enemies to death.
Helpful buffaloes save hero from tiger.
Helpful bird kills snake attacking master's wife and child.
Horse kills master's attacking enemies.
Shut in with elephants, blackbird orders ants to burrow themselves into the elephants' brains.
Grateful hawk attacks hero's enemies.
Helpful centipede kills ogre.
Hero contests with demons, using fighting animals: cock, goat, bull, horse, wild bull, peacock.
Hero saved from ravaging snake by crab companion.
Animals overcome man's adversary by strategy.
Helpful bees (hornets) sting opposing army.
Saint sends swarm of bees or wasps against enemies.
Helpful snake protects man from attack.
Supernatural bird prevents mother from killing babe.
Broom, transformed into porcupine, drives away would-be ravisher.
Grateful hare raises animal army for hero.
Faithful dog kills would-be murderer of sleeping master.
Chicken picks out one of attacker's eyes.
Animal spares man he is about to devour.
Tiger hides woman from all other tigers.
Animal saves man from death by burning.
Helpful animals quench execution fire.
Helpful mare cools boiling bath for master.
Animal saves man from death by drowning.
Fish promises to spare man in coming flood.
Helpful animal stops leak in Noah's Ark.
Owl saves man from drowning: flaps wings to call attention to direction of land.
Animal saves person's life--miscellaneous.
Animals (sow, bitch, mare) hide boy in their belly to protect him.
Dragon swallows arrow (thunderbolt) intended for hero.
Mythical frog as host to woman.
Elephants look after ascetic in jungle.
Animals provide food for men.
Infants fed by bees.
Unusual milking animal.
Does, tigresses, she-wolves milked into pond, which becomes a pond of milk.
Helpful animal recovers magic food-producing skin from river bottom.
Helpful animal drops magic food.
Birds save man from hunger by pitching themselves to roast in fire he has made.
Animal nurse.
Cow as nurse cares for children.
Bison as nurse for child.
Bandicoot (large rat) as nurse.
Goat as nurse for child.
Dog as nurse for child.
Abandoned prince grows up in eagle's nest.
Frog as nurse for child.
Bird as nurse for child.
Stork as nurse for child.
Crane as nurse for child.
Tiger as nurse for child.
She-wolf as nurse for child.
Sheep and oxen protect exposed child.
She-wolf cares for baby exposed in the forest.
Eagle cares for baby while mother works in field.
Crab as nurse for child.
Serpent as nurse for child.
Goat feeds other animals from its body.
Animal nurses fight with real parent for children.
Helpful animal cares for wounded (sick) master.
Helpful bird cares for blinded master.
Animals adopt mysterious housekeeper.
Animals provide shelter.
Bird gives shelter with wings.
Wolf-tail blankets.
Animal rescuer or retriever.
Birds throw some of their feathers to the hero in danger and he flies off.
Helpful horse rescues children.
Animal rescues man from sea.
Escape from sea on fish's back.
Fish swallows man to rescue him from sea.
Fox rescues man from sea.
Bird rescues man from sea.
Dog rescues drowning man.
Boat towed by dog.
Fish rescues ship.
Animal carries man through air to safety.
Bird flies with man to safety.
Eagle carries man to safety.
Bat rescues man from height.
Measuring worm rescues from a height.
Escape on flying horse.
Transportation to fairyland on griffin's back.
Animal finds stolen person.
Animal helps on quest for vanished wife.
Bottlefly finds stolen woman in sky.
Animal finds stolen goods.
Stolen child rescued by animal nurse.
Elephant rescues stolen girl.
Animal rescues captive.
Animals help imprisoned master.
Animal rescues from trap (net).
Deer in net freed by friendly animals, a crow, a mouse and a tortoise.
Rat (mouse) gnaws net.
Animal searches for dead man.
Animal rescues man from dangerous place.
Animal rescues man from well.
Raven rescues man from pit.
Man falls in hole with horse; buzzards gather; he lassoes a number of buzzards, ties them together, frightens them; all fly at once, carry
him from hole.
Centaur rescues man from beast-infested jungle.
Frog rescues man from kingdom of the snakes.
Animal retrieves lost object.
Animals recover lost wishing ring.
Martens recover lost magic ring from kite.
Otters recover lost magic ring from fish.
Fish brings lost object from bottom of sea.
Fish recovers ring from sea.
Fish recovers key from sea.
Frog recovers keys from sea.
Duck recovers lost key from sea.
Fish recovers lost fish-hook from sea.
Fish recovers pen from sea.
Fish recovers lost urn from sea.
Otter retrieves lost magic object from bottom of lake.
Ducks recover lost object from water.
Frog recovers Sacred Host from water.
Jewel recovered from sea by helpful parrot.
Animal rescuer--miscellaneous.
Girl saved by lion from ravishment.
Dragon makes bridge across stream for holy man.
Abandoned child rescued by dog.
Animal rescues from cave.
Hero saved from ravaging snake by crab companion.
Animal carries man across water.
Fish carries man across water.
Fish carries man to upper world.
Aquatic bird carries man across water.
Parrots carry couple across the sea.
Crocodile carries man across river (ocean).
Water snake carries boy across river.
Turtle (tortoise) carries person across river (ocean).
Man carried by bird.
Alexander carried by two birds with meat held in front of them.
Man carried by peacock.
Indra carried by cock.
Animals serve as bridge across stream.
Sea-beast allows voyager to land upon his back.
Unusual animal as riding-horse.
Man carried on goat's horns.
Saint carried by wild oxen.
Man carried by deer.
Crocodile as means of transportation for a saint.
Person carried by lion.
Magic dog carries owner in his ear.
Person carried by cat.
Person carried by cobra.
Person carried by locust.
Person carried by tiger.
Person (animal) carried by elephant.
Hero rides on animated wax elephant.
Hero rides on winged elephant.
Hare rides on winged elephant.
Person carried by peacock.
Jackal rides on fox.
Person carried by frog.
Wolf carries man.
Unusual draft-animal.
Boat drawn by swans (geese).
Swans harnessed to chariot.
Hen hitched to wagon.
Deer hitched to wagon.
Mice hitched to wagon.
Wild animals yoked by saint to his plough.
Winged serpents pull chariot through sky.
Animals carry men--miscellaneous.
Man carried by toad.
Grateful dragon king gives hero advice.
Animals tell hero their secrets.
Animals' advice leads man to wealth.
Animal shows man treasure.
Helpful animal discovers jewel.
Hogs root up gold (treasure) for saint.
Horse kicks up jewel.
Birds show man treasure.
Animal advises about investment.
Animals direct man on journey.
Lion leads lost king from forest.
Horses carry lost riders to safety.
Chimpanzee leads lost hunter home.
Birds point out road to hero.
Squirrel points out road.
Animal leads cleric to holy place.
Animal leads lost man home.
Tiger guides lost man home; hence men do not eat tigers.
Jackal leads lost men out of wilderness.
Wild leopards guide Jesus and the Holy Family through wilderness in flight to Egypt.
Birds as scouts.
Bird conducts navigators to landing place.
Parrot gives advice to queen playing chess, and she always wins.
Animals advise men--miscellaneous.
Owl advises old man of projected visit by gods (in disguise).
Owl advises old man where to plant his crops after listening in to council of gods concerning rainfall distribution for the year.
Mosquito gives hero advice as to which choice to make.
Animals perform tasks for man.
Animals help man overcome monster with external soul.
Animal who arrives late performs tasks for man.
Animals fight together with their master.
Bear husks millet for man.
Animals as carpenter (builder).
Animals build palace (house) for man.
Birds build canoe for master.
Animals as domestic servants.
Animal as constant attendant of man.
Wild animals kept as dogs.
Bird rests on person's shoulders.
Animal as guard.
Animal as guard of person or house.
Guardian animals evaded.
Robbers frightened by grateful dog.
Animals guard treasure.
Animal as herdsman.
Fish guards cow for master.
Animal guards master's dead body.
Animal as guard of shop.
Dogs track down law-breakers.
Animals serve man otherwise.
Animal accompanies man on journey.
Helpful cow strikes at flies, while boy eats.
Animal corrects examination paper for his rescuer.
Animals help repair leaky pot.
Serpent acts as a rope to collect wood for man.
Faithful dog is offered as security for a debt.
Animal earns money for master.
Animal brings wealth to man.
Animal helps person to success in love.
Animal wooer.
Animal wins wife for his master (Puss in Boots).
Goose brings master sleeping princess.
Animal wins husband for mistress.
Animals help hero win princess.
Hero carried by bird to mistress' chamber.
Rat digs underground passage to girl's chamber for hero.
Swan as matchmaker.
Bee as matchmaker.
Dove helps deity draw his wife into a net.
Animal gives treasure to man.
Grateful whales disgorge gold.
Animal gives man other gifts.
Fox holds in its mouth a beautiful flower which he gives to hero.
Animal wins contest for man.
Magic horse wins jumping contest for man.
Fly helps loathly suitor pass suitor test.
Grateful bull draws one hundred carts for wager for master.
Animal helps man to wealth and greatness--miscellaneous.
Eagle regains throne for deposed king.
Animal avenges murder.
Animals refuse to devour Cain to avenge murder of Abel.
Lion kills wolf who has killed mistress' sheep.
Horse kicks to death master's murderer.
Animals bequeath characteristics to man.
Animal as house-spirit.
Snake as house-spirit.
Animal rejuvenates person.
Bird rejuvenates person.
Animal helps saint by setting fire to neglected church.
Cow gives marvelous supply of milk through virtue of saint.
Animal as confederate of adulterous wife.
Boar as confederate of adulterous wife.
Deer as confederate of adulterous wife.
Other services of helpful animals.
Cock and hen build pyre for benefactor.
Animal helps person pass test.
Elephant draws plow to mark boundaries of empire.
Various animals tried out as wives.
Various animals tried out as wives: none accepted.
Animal husband provides characteristic animal food.
Marriage of person to beast.
Marriage to bear.
Bear steals woman and makes her his wife.
Marriage to dog.
Marriage to rat.
Marriage to mouse.
Marriage to leopard.
Marriage to elephant.
Marriage to lemur.
Marriage to monkey.
Person plans to marry monkey.
Marriage to swine.
Marriage to tiger.
Marriage to deer.
Marriage to jackal.
Marriage to cat.
Marriage to hare.
Marriage to fox.
Marriage to jaguar.
Marriage to wolf.
Marriage to coati-puri.
Marriage to seal.
Marriage to bird.
Marriage to eagle.
Marriage to fulmar.
Marriage to pigeon.
Marriage to vulture.
Marriage to crane.
Marriage to goose.
Marriage to parrot.
Marriage to kingfisher.
Marriage to fish (whale).
Marriage to shrimp.
Marriage to eel.
Marriage to reptile.
Marriage to snake.
Marriage to tortoise.
Marriage to turtle.
Marriage to crocodile.
Marriage to lizard.
Marriage to frog.
Marriage to dragon.
Girl's animal lover slain by spying relatives.
Beast paramour.
Bear paramour.
Dog paramour.
Horse paramour.
Sea-horse paramour.
Lake-horse paramour.
Bull paramour.
Deer paramour.
Monkey paramour.
Rat paramour.
Tapir paramour.
Fish paramour.
Eel paramour.
Dolphin as paramour.
Reptile paramour.
Snake paramour.
Snake woman as paramour.
Crocodile paramour.
Lizard paramour.
Bird paramour.
Daughter promised to animal suitor.
Beast as suitor.
Bear as suitor.
Lion as suitor.
Tiger as suitor.
Rat as suitor.
Leopard as suitor.
Pig as suitor.
Horse as suitor.
Wolf and wolverine fight over girl.
Reptile as wooer.
Serpent as wooer.
Crocodile as wooer.
Tortoise as wooer.
Bird as wooer.
Crane as wooer.
Owl as suitor.
Magpie as suitor.
Crow as suitor.
Cock as suitor.
Fish as wooer.
Half-man, half-fish as wooer.
Human offspring from marriage to animal.
Son warns animal mother.
Boy kills his animal father for reward.
Animal mother of man helps him.
Human beings descended from seals.
Fish bears men-children.
Lioness bears man child.
Cow bears man child.
Tigress bears men-children.
Human offspring of marriage of person and jaguar.
Human offspring of marriage of person and lion.
Human offspring of marriage of person and snake.
Animal offspring from marriage to animal.
Human and animal offspring from marriage to animal.
Monstrous offspring from animal marriage.
Monstrous offspring of sea-horse and woman.
Human foster-child with animal qualities.
The Bear's Son.
Eaten meat of bear-lover causes unborn son to have bear characteristics.
Bear's foster child not used to sun and light.
Bear says he is boy's father; asks food.
Wolf boy (girl) running around with wolf and cubs recovered by parents after six years: recognized by scar.
Child of mortal and deer has deer's hair on temple.
Culture hero licked by deer mother.
Son of dog ("cu," person).
Son of three dogs ("con," persons).
Offspring of human and animal intercourse.
Marriage to beast by day and man by night.
Marriage to person in beast form.
Marriage to person in dog form.
Marriage to woman in deer form.
Marriage to man in deer form.
Marriage to god in bull form.
Marriage to person in ass form.
Marriage to person in hedgehog form.
Marriage to person in horse form.
Marriage to person in monkey form.
Marriage to person in opossum form.
Marriage to person in bird form.
Marriage to person in insect form.
Marriage to person in caterpillar form.
Marriage to person in fish form.
Marriage to person in amphibian form.
Marriage of person to transformed toad.
Marriage to person in toad form.
Marriage to person in frog form.
Marriage to person in crocodile form.
Marriage to person in reptile form.
Marriage to person in snake form.
Marriage to person in form of five-headed snake.
Marriage to person in animal form--miscellaneous.
Marriage to person in crustacean form.
Marriage to person in crab form.
Man becomes deer and marries deer.
Animal transformed to man wants to marry woman.
Marriage to beast in human form.
Marriage to fox in human form.
Marriage to buffalo in human form.
Marriage to lion in human form.
Marriage to dog in human form.
Marriage to deer in human form.
Marriage to wolf in human form.
Marriage to bear in human form.
Marriage to seal in human form.
Marriage to tiger in human form.
Marriage to squirrel in human form.
Marriage to leopard in human form.
Marriage to bird in human form.
Marriage to swan-maiden.
Man marries crane in human form.
Marriage to dove-maiden.
Marriage to woodpecker in human form.
Marriage to insect in human form.
Marriage to bee in human form.
Marriage to fish in human form.
Marriage to amphibia in human form.
Marriage to reptile in human form.
Marriage to python in human form.
Marriage to serpent in human form.
Marriage to other animals in human form.
Goose mates with crow.
Mythical tiger has family of jaguars.
Relatives kill animal-husband but wife throws herself into pyre.
Fanciful origin of the jackal.
Clever and swift horse of fanciful origin.
Clever and swift horse fed with worms' milk on the gold mountain Tecklen in India.
Clever and swift horse of dromedary-family.
Barnacle goose.
Animal born from animal carcass.
Bees born from carcass of ox.
Animal born from putrification.
Worm (monster) from caul born with child.
The cow Audhumla sprang from the dripping rime of the creation of the universe.
Animal born from human or animal bones.
Animal born from earth.
Cat's luminous eye.
Magic stone in animal's head.
Magic love-working stone in swallow's head.
Magic stone in dog's forehead.
Luminous jewel in animal's head.
Earthworm has light in its tail.
Tortoise has no liver or teeth.
Spider has no blood in body.
Female bears have no breasts to nurse their young; suck paws.
Double snake--male and female.
Fanciful color of animal.
Animals of strange and varied coloring.
Green she-goat.
Green horse.
Horse with crimson mane and green legs.
Artificially colored horses.
Striped horse with purple mane and white feet.
Multicolored llama.
Cow with changing colors.
Cow with white ears.
Cow with red ears.
Silver, gold, and diamond birds.
Hound of every color.
Polychromatic dogs.
Hound half white, half green.
Blue dogs and cats.
Fancifully colored deer.
Stag with stripe of every color.
Fawn with golden lustre.
Red (green) swine.
Purple wether.
Ram with green feet and horns.
Multicolored worm (serpent).
Blue serpent.
Silver fish with gold fins.
Bird with changing color.
Hyena with three hundred sixty-five different colors.
Panther's sweet smell protects him from other beasts.
Animals are spirit-sighted.
Balaam's ass perceives angel.
Dogs howling indicates death.
Cock hears inaudible voice of dying man.
Bird gives milk.
Animal sheds tears.
Bird sheds tears.
Horse sheds tears (of blood).
Dog sheds tears.
Fox sheds tears.
Stag sheds tears.
Calf sheds tears.
Fish with coat of wool.
Animal's skin revolves while flesh and bones remain stationary.
Fanciful color, smell etc.
Magic cock has elixir in his body which makes people light.
Lion's roar causes havoc at 300 miles.
Cry of giant ox impregnates all fish.
Neighing of stallion in Assyria impregnates mares in Egypt.
Cow whose bellowing defeats army.
Bellow of bull heard over entire land.
Animal breathes fire.
Lion breathes fire.
Birds spit fire.
Fire-breathing horses.
Fire-breathing dogs.
Blowing serpent.
Animal travels extraordinary distance.
Indestructibility of leech.
Bear could formerly lift mountain.
Animal's strong teeth.
Strong teeth of lion.
Locusts with jaw teeth strong as lion's.
Mice gnaw through metal vessels.
Snake shoots rapids of mighty river.
Animal's fanciful treatment of their young.
Snake swallows young to protect them.
Pelican kills young and revives them with own blood.
Eagle tests eaglets by having them gaze at sun.
The lion blows first life into its cubs three days after their birth.
Animal neglects its young.
Wolf strongly attracted to his own children.
Fanciful behavior of animal at death.
Swan song.
Snake does not die before sunset.
Snake kills itself by biting part of body (when in danger or torture).
Sexual habits of animals.
Unusual sexual union of animals.
Animal changes sex periodically.
Hyena changes sex yearly.
Hare changes sex periodically.
Elephants have sexual desire only after eating mandrakes.
Lions do not mate with their fellows, but prefer leopards.
Female rattlesnakes mate with black snakes rather than with male rattlesnakes.
Male rabbit bears young.
Cocks kept from intercourse with hens have tenderest meat.
Peacock pregnant without intercourse.
Unusual impregnation of animal.
Animal impregnated through mouth (ears).
Unusual parturition of animal.
Crab's offspring born through its chest.
Eagle catches gazelle's young as it is born.
Animal calls the dawn.
Gold-digging ants.
Rats leave sinking ship.
Eagle renews youth.
Turtle holds with jaws till it thunders.
Monkeys attack by throwing coconuts.
Animal attacks by throwing pebbles.
Fanciful qualities of snakes.
Snake takes tail in mouth and rolls like wheel.
Snake lays aside his crown to bathe.
Snake sucks poisonous dew from grass.
Snake milks cows at night.
Snake attaches itself to a woman's breast and draws away her milk while she sleeps.
Snake crawls from sleeper's mouth.
Snake eats milk and bread with child.
Snake drinks milk.
Jointed snake can join its segments when it is broken into pieces.
Snakes may be killed, but do not die.
Snake grows back together after it has been severed.
Snake sucks poison from bite it has itself made.
Poisonous snakes in certain region have no venom.
Snake cracks self like coach whip and chases man.
Snake's venom kills tree.
Venomous snakes play with precious stones.
Copperhead guides rattlesnake to its prey.
Snake has hypnotic stare: person cannot move.
Serpent reduces man to a heap of ashes by its fiery gaze.
Snake stands up, whistles.
Snake has stinger.
Bullets have no effect on giant serpent; only stroke of lightning effective.
Snake avoids object.
Snake avoids white ash.
Snakes will not cross rope made of hair.
Snakes will not cross a ring made of Irish earth.
Detached snake fang kills person or animal.
Snake kills man who has killed snake's mate.
Snake revives snakes which have been injured (the doctor snake).
King snake: kills and eats any snake that does not accept his authority.
Snake with legs.
Dragon fly serves as snake's servant, feeds snake; it is called snake-feeder.
Dragon fly acts as doctor to injured snakes.
Female snake seven years pregnant.
Palm tree grows on serpent's body.
Fanciful dangers from animals.
Cat mutilates corpses.
Cat must be kept from dying person because it will catch the person's soul issuing (from mouth) in form of mouse.
Cat sucks sleeping child's breath.
Toads suck blood.
Bite of white she-mule causes certain death.
Animals attracted by music.
Fish follow sound of music.
Fancied nourishment of animals.
Partridge subsists on moonbeams.
Salamander subsists on fire.
Swans live on pearls.
Serpent subsists on dust.
Wild animal miraculously tamed.
Wild animal will not harm chaste woman.
Animal tamed by maiden's beauty.
Animal tamed by holiness of saint.
Hungry lions do not harm saint.
Animal tamed by saint's prayer.
Lions made tame by Moses' rod.
Wild animal will not attack royal person.
Fish trained to answer person's call.
Wild animal performs for king.
Shipwrecked man repulsed by animals.
Animals with human emotions.
Animal feels agitation at sight of native land.
Animal (lion) pines away with grief upon his friend's grave.
Lion (wolf) protects the saint's body.
Stork is man while hibernating in Egypt.
Venomous animals.
Garlic juice dangerous to poisonous animals.
Venomous sheep destroy enemy.
Toad considered venomous.
Venomous hound.
Venomous dog loosed against saint.
Mud puppy considered poisonous.
Venomous swine.
Pig with venomous bristles.
Venomous boar.
Blood of animal considered venomous.
Blood of toad venomous.
Blood of lion venomous.
Blood of snakes venomous.
Blood of otter venomous.
Blood of bear venomous.
Venomous worm.
Venomous serpent.
Breath of bird withers.
Animal "drinks apart" mixed liquids.
Sheep sleeps if anyone ties shoe to its ear.
Swine maddened by smell of oak forest.
Animal lives in person's stomach.
Frog living in person's stomach rises into throat, croaks every spring.
How animal gets into person's stomach (or body) (various methods).
Person drinking from brook swallows animal eggs (frog or newt).
Person swallows pebble on beach; snake grows in stomach.
Person swallows snake semen or egg while eating watercress.
Girl swallows frog spawn; an octopus grows inside her with tentacles reaching to every part of her body.
Swallowed blackbeetle reproduces inside person's body.
Girl eats plums and maggots in them; maggots multiply inside her body.
Scaly lizard jumps into person's mouth.
Salamander gets into veins through cracks in feet when person goes barefoot.
Means of ridding person of animal in stomach.
No remedy possible.
Patient fed salt: animal comes out for water.
Snake (frog) in human body enticed out by milk (water).
Husband ties a cock near wife's feet: snake-parasite in her stomach comes out to catch the cock and is killed by husband.
Patient sits before tempting meal without eating; animal emerges.
Frog is enticed from patient's mouth by offering it a piece of cheese.
Physician removes animal from stomach of patient.
Animal wards off spirits.
Monkeys always copy men.
Birds mock ascetic's devotions.
Bats keep fireflies to light their houses.
Elephants have power of bringing rain.
Why certain animals are thought of as good or bad.
Elephants in folktales.
Horses in tales and legends.
Sacred animals.
Sacred horse.
Helpful horses descended from heaven.
Sacred armadillo.
Sacred animal: cow.
Sacred buffalo.
Sacred bull.
Sacred cattle of sun god.
Sacred cat.
Sacred swan.
Sacred fox.
Animals try in vain to repair sleigh.
Long-lived animals.
Animals debate as to which is the elder.
Ages of animals (birds, fish) compared with age of human beings.
Crow lives nine generations of men, deer 36, raven 108, phoenix 972, nymphs 9720.
Dog so old his head is skinless.
Stags live one thousand years.
Faithful old dog to be killed.
Faithful old horse to be abandoned.
Immortal animals.
Immortal serpent.
Immortal donkey.
Wild animals herded.
Wild pigs kept by demigod as if domesticated.
Animals chained in couples.
Monkeys construct a bridge across the ocean.
Lions placed in city to prevent entrance.
Man unharmed in den of animals.
The musician in the wolf-trap: meets wolf already trapped, and saves himself by playing music.
Girl removes dog from lion's claws without being harmed.
When cow calls her calf, all cattle graze.
Birds perch on ears of cows.
Each of grazing herd of cows eats same amount.
Man and bear in the rick of hay.
Animal avenges injury.
Animal extraordinarily heavy for size.
Giant beasts.
Giant domestic beasts.
Giant cow.
Giant ox.
Gigantic ox-rib (in otherworld).
Giant bull.
Giant buffalo.
Giant boar.
Giant boar with hinder part as large as can be carried by nine men.
Giant hog.
Gigantic hog-rib (in otherworld).
Giant sheep.
Giant goat.
Giant horse: hair from the tail is seven yards.
Giant cat.
Giant dog (hound).
Giant wild beasts.
Giant elephant.
Giant tiger.
Giant panther.
Giant hippopotamus.
Giant lion.
Giant walrus.
Giant mice.
Giant hare.
Giant armadillo.
Giant eagle.
Giant gull.
Giant falcon.
Giant auk.
Giant insects.
Giant louse.
Giant scorpion.
Giant spider.
Giant ant.
Giant fish.
Giant river catfish.
Giant eel.
Giant whale.
Whale cast ashore--three golden teeth and five ounces in each of these teeth.
Giant whale cast ashore on the night of Christ's Nativity: "fifty men were on the upper parts of its head, and (there was) the limit of
vision between each two of them.
Giant salmon.
Giant shark.
Giant clam.
Giant reptiles.
Giant serpent.
Giant crocodile.
Giant turtle.
Giant tortoise.
Giant amphibia and other animal forms.
Giant frog.
Giant crustacean.
Giant crab.
Giant mythical animals.
Giant sea monster.
Giant water monster attacks man.
Giant sea monster overpowered by saint.
Gigantic animal ("reem").
Djun, gigantic and ferocious river animal.
Giant flock of animals (birds.) Giant flock of birds.
Flock of birds so numerous that it shakes trees upon which it perches.
Druidism forbidden.
The Old Man and Death.
Devil invoked: appears unexpectedly.
Devil called on for help.
Man wishing to be conjurer fears helper he has called.
Oath: "May the devil take me if .
Oath: "May the devil whet my scythe." Man commends wife to devil.
Mother wishes lazy daughter may marry devil.
Devil's name used in curse.
Noah's curse admits devil to ark.
Man curses and devil fulfills his wish: takes the stone away.
Girl fond of dancing uses devil's name.
Lost parson says he would rather have devil for guide than clerk who is with him.
Man calls on devil to descend chimney when angry at wife.
Man swears he will chastise devil for poaching.
Wife curses wicked husband: "May devil take you!" Devil does.
Man vows he will cross water "in spite of devil." The offended skull (statue) (Festin de Pierre).
Prince invites angel to wedding.
"Adversity" summoned: king says he has heard people speak of adversity but has never seen it; genius of adversity appears.
Wish for supernatural husband (wife) realized.
Wish for star-husband realized.
Wish for star wife realized.
Wish for tree as husband realized.
Tabu: offending spirits of the dead.
"Ah me!": ogre's name uttered.
"Bear's food." Child threatened with ogre.
Wish for animal husband realized.
Tabu: offending supernatural wife.
Tabu: looking at supernatural wife.
Tabu: looking at supernatural wife too soon.
Tabu: looking at supernatural wife on certain occasion.
Tabu: looking at supernatural wife naked.
Tabu: husband looking at supernatural wife in childbirth.
Tabu: opening gourd in which star-wife is kept.
Tabu: mentioning origin of supernatural wife.
Tabu: disobeying supernatural wife.
Tabu: blaming supernatural wife.
Tabu: questioning supernatural wife.
Tabu: scolding supernatural wife.
Tabu: boasting of supernatural wife.
Tabu: calling on supernatural wife.
Tabu: lousing supernatural wife.
Tabu: striking supernatural wife.
Tabu: revealing secrets of supernatural wife.
Tabu: giving garment back to supernatural (divine) wife.
Tabu: reproaching supernatural wife about her sisters.
Unfaithful husband loses magic wife.
Tabu: offending supernatural husband.
Tabu: looking at supernatural husband.
Tabu: wife seeing transformed husband.
Tabu: showing surprise when supernatural husband resumes his true shape.
Tabu: questioning supernatural husband.
Tabu: asking name of supernatural husband.
Tabu: asking where supernatural husband comes from.
Tabu: asking for caste of supernatural husband.
Tabu: not to touch too soon supernatural husband on visit.
Offending supernatural child.
Tabu: mentioning origin of supernatural child.
Tabu: offending animal wife.
Tabu: mentioning origin of animal wife.
Tabu: offending animal husband.
Tabu: burning animal husband.
Tabu: spying on animal husband.
Tabu: offending other animal relatives.
Tabu: offending water-spirit.
Tabu: rescuing drowning man.
Tabu: letting ball fall into water.
Tabu: crossing water when spirits are offended.
Tabu: skating over water when spirits are offended.
Tabu: poisoning fish causes storm.
Tabu: offending mountain-spirit.
Tabu: offending wood-spirit.
Tabu: offending spirit of banyan tree.
Tabu: cutting certain trees lest tree-spirits be offended.
Felled tree restored for failure to make proper offerings to tree-spirit.
Tabu: offending guardian spirits.
Tabu: offending devil.
Tabu: offending fairy.
Tabu: breaking promise to fairy: death on twelfth day.
Tabu: offending goddess of fortune.
Tabu: touching possessions of god.
Tabu: profaning shrine.
Tabu: using altar for secular purposes.
Tabu: stealing from altar.
Tabu: stealing from sacred booty.
Tabu: breathing on sacred fire.
Tabu: misuse of money in alms box.
Tabu: dancing in churchyard.
Tabu: discontinuing use of a church.
Tabu: peeping at sacred font.
Tabu: allowing a drop to fall upon altar.
Tabu: unworthy men to enter or see sanctuary.
Tabu: to enter sacred places closed to the female sex.
Visits of goddess cease when her sacred spring is disturbed.
Tabu: striking tree which belongs to deity.
Tabu: treating scornfully statue and dress of goddess.
Tabu: leaving corpse at shrine.
Tabu: wearing shoes at shrine.
Tabu: stealing from god or saint.
Tabu: wearing unauthorized sacred robe (jewel).
Tabu: cutting sacred trees or groves.
Tabu: taking fruit and fish dedicated to goddess.
Tabu: stealing wife of god.
Tabu: stealing from holy statue.
Tabu: violating refuge with saint.
Tabu: revealing name of god.
Tabu: desecration of God's name.
Tabu: revealing secrets of god.
Tabu: betraying privacy of god.
Tabu: spying on secret help of angels.
Tabu: imitating god.
Tabu: falsely claiming the powers of a god.
Tabu: touching stone image of deity with unwashed hands.
Tabu: giving away idol.
Tabu: pointing boat toward island of the gods.
Tabu: being in presence of god.
Direct communication with god fatal to all except special devotees.
Tabu: coming suddenly on supernatural creatures.
Tabu: refusing credit to god.
People taught by God to work: claim they learned by own efforts.
Tabu: arrogance toward deity.
Tabu: rivaling the gods.
Tabu: losing consecrated wafer.
Tabu: stepping on sacred bread.
Tabu: shooting at consecrated wafer.
Bee-master puts consecrated host into beehive.
Tabu: unseemly acts while carrying divine image.
Tabu: defecating while carrying image of a god.
Tabu: stopping enroute while carrying image of a god.
Tabu: neglect of service to deity.
Tabu: neglect of sacrifice to deity.
Tabu: fraudulent sacrifice.
No man with a wound to be sacrificed to goddess.
Tabu: eating from offerings made to gods.
Punishment for having refused to take part in Bacchic rites.
Tabu: profaning sacred day.
Tabu: diminishing number of sacred days.
Tabu: disbelief in religious teachings.
Tabu: disbelief in God.
Tabu: disbelief in immortality.
Tabu: disbelief in scriptures.
Tabu: disbelief in particular supernatural power.
Tabu: idolatry.
Tabu: attacking deity (sacred person).
Tabu: failing to heed message of god.
Tabu: changing ritual.
Tabu: murmuring against deity.
Tabu: neglect of sacred fires.
Tabu: neglecting to fulfill vow made to god.
Tabu: disobeying the king.
Tabu: offending heavenly bodies.
Tabu: offending the moon.
Tabu: stealing from spirits.
Tabu: stealing garment from a rock.
Tabu: stealing fruits from sacred tree.
Tabu: killing sacred beings.
Tabu: killing sacred animals.
Tabu: killing animals for sacrifice.
Tabu: killing raven (Odin's bird).
Tabu: killing sacred calf.
Tabu: killing shrew-mouse, sacred to the gods.
Tabu: killing stork.
Tabu: killing scald-crow (goddess of war).
Tabu: killing other sacred bird.
Tabu: killing sacred dragon.
Tabu: trespassing sacred precinct.
Tabu: sleeping in saint's bed.
Tabu: profaning hallowed clothes and vessels.
Tabu: digging in churchyard.
Tabu: crossing bridge sacred to the gods.
Tabu: slaughtering buffalo in temple.
Tabu: use of palanquin within temple.
Tabu: cutting down tree wherein resides deity.
Tabu: erecting fort on holy ground.
Tabu: landing on floating island of the gods without invitation.
Tabu: rudeness to sacred person or thing.
Tabu: uncivil answer to holy (or supernatural) being.
The cursed dancers.
Tabu: failure to give alms to Brahmans.
Tabu: discourtesy toward priest (rabbi, etc.
Tabu: false and profane swearing of oath.
Tabu: mocking animal.
Tabu: rudeness to sacred animal.
Tabu: offending sacred cow.
Tabu: calling profanely on God.
Tabu: calling profanely on the members of God.
Tabu: masking as ghost in graveyard.
Tabu: throwing away holy image.
Tabu: ringing of church bell by nun.
Tabu: refusing homage to saint's bell.
Tabu: disturbing austerities of an ascetic.
Tabu: giving security for one excommunicated.
Tabu: using miracle for trifling purpose.
Tabu: resurrecting cat for trifling purpose.
Other tabus in connection with sacred beings--miscellaneous.
Tabu: facing the sun (sun-god) while urinating.
Tabu: urinating on fire (fire-god).
Tabu: weaving leather shoes on pilgrimage.
Sex tabu broken: child born without bones.
Tabu: sexual intercourse.
Tabu: sexual relationship with girls of nobility while having sore on body.
Tabu: loss of chastity.
Tabu: sexual intercourse with unearthly beings.
Tabu: sodomy.
Tabu: incest.
Tabu: son seeing mother perform sex act.
Sex tabu: man--niece.
Tabu: adultery.
Tabu: sexual intercourse in sacred precinct.
Nuptial tabu.
Tabu: intercourse with resuscitated wife for particular number of days.
Tabu: violating woman.
Tabu: violating insane woman.
Miscellaneous tabus concerning sexual intercourse.
Tabu: sexual intercourse at certain time.
Tabu: sexual intercourse during illness.
Tabu: sexual intercourse on Sabbath.
Tabu: intercourse at hunting season.
Tabu: sexual intercourse during religious festival (18 days).
Tabu: intercourse before worship.
Tabu: intercourse at night.
Tabu: failure to sleep with guest unaccompanied by husband.
Tabu: kissing supernatural husband.
Tabu: kissing fairies.
Tabu: girl going forth at puberty.
Tabu: male presence in girl's puberty-hut.
Tabu: going forth during menses.
Tabu: menstrous woman not to go near any cultivated field or crops will be ruined.
Tabu: not to enter cowshed during menses.
Tabu: not to enter water during menses.
Tabu: sexual intercourse during menses.
Tabu: eating from hands of menstruating women.
Ground defiled by menstrual blood.
Tabu: not to touch certain things during menses.
Women must wear certain things during menstruation.
Menstruating women must wear amulet of leaves when approaching certain valley.
Tabu: man not to be present at childbirth.
Tabus during pregnancy.
Tabu: violence to woman during pregnancy.
Tabu: refusing unreasonable demand of pregnant woman.
Eating tabus for pregnant woman.
Pregnant woman not to eat food baked overnight.
Certain foods tabu one (two) months before childbirth.
Tabu: contact with woman at childbirth.
Tabu: carrying corpse of woman who died in childbirth.
Tabus following childbirth.
Food tabus following childbirth.
Tabus for girl going to her husband.
Tabu: marriage with certain person.
Tabu: marrying queen of certain race.
Tabu: fairy girl marrying mortal.
Tabu: marrying unmanly person.
Tabu: marrying outside of group (or caste).
Tabu: neglecting sexual relations in marriage.
Tabu: forcing wife.
Tabu: marriage with person whose blood one has drunk.
Tabu: playing at marriage ceremony.
Boy who plays marriage-game finds he has actually been married to a spirit (invisible during ceremony).
Tabu: disregarding dream warning against marriage.
Woman marries in spite of warning dream.
Tabu connected with marriage--miscellaneous.
Tabu: not to lay down basket carrying bride on wedding journey.
Tabu: giving younger daughter in marriage before elder.
Mother-in-law tabu.
Sister-in-law tabu: older brother must avoid younger brother's wife.
Daughter-in-law tabu.
Tabu confined to women.
Tabu: woman not to touch husband's drum (magic object).
Tabu: women not to participate in hunting activities.
Tabu: women not to touch man's weapons.
Tabu: women not to climb on roof.
Tabu: Baiga women not to tie cloth between legs.
Tabu: Bondo women not to wear clothes.
Grave (of man) upon which no women can look without foolish laugh or "sine crepitu ventris eius."
Tabu: women not to eat pork.
Tabu: Saora women not to wear gold earrings.
Tabu: women riding in canoe.
Mare not to be yoked to cart drawing corpse.
Tabu: woman sacrificing in temple.
Tabu confined to men.
Tabu: men fishing at certain place.
Tabu: man entering woman's quarters in her absence.
Tabu: mortal lusting after goddess.
Tabu: refusing to elope with woman who desires it.
Tabu: consorting with a woman.
Tabu: woman being in one's dwelling.
Tabu: trysting with woman at certain place.
Tabu: embracing at village gate.
Tabu: taking the advice of a woman.
Tabu: asking for king's daughter in marriage.
Tabu: eating one's fill.
Tabu: eating in other world.
Tabu: eating in fairyland.
Tabu: eating in lower world.
Tabu: eating in land of ghosts.
Tabu: eating in hell (hades).
Tabu: sky dwellers eating on earth.
Tabu: goddess eating on earth.
Tabu: fairies eating mortal food.
Married man not to eat in country of his parents.
Tabu: eating from certain place--miscellaneous Tabu: eating from ground.
Tabu: eating from fine pots.
Tabu: eating off new mats.
Tabu: eating from cooking hearth.
Tabu: eating food produced by a spell.
Tabu: eating meat.
Tabu: eating flesh of certain animal.
Tabu: eating flesh of certain beast.
Tabu: eating cow.
Tabu: eating ox.
Tabu: eating calf.
Tabu: killing and cooking sacred cow.
Tabu: eating horsemeat.
Eating seal meat.
Tabu: eating dog.
Tabu: eating pork.
Tabu: eating weasel.
Tabu: eating mouse.
Tabu: eating bird.
Tabu: eating cassawary.
Tabu: eating pigeon.
Eating dove.
Tabu: eating eagle.
Tabu: eating fish.
Tabu: eating certain fish.
Tabu: eating eel.
Tabu: eating crabs.
Tabu: eating shark.
Eating totem animal (or animal namesake).
Tabu: eating animal helper.
Tabu: eating certain parts of animals.
Tabu: eating animal's genitals.
Tabu: breaking bones of eaten animal.
Tabu: eating bird's eggs at certain time of year.
Tabu: eating blubber.
Tabu: eating fat of animals.
Tabu: eating heart of animal (to commemorate relative whose heart was removed by king.)
Tabu: eating sinew of thigh vein.
Tabu: eating animal taken under certain circumstances.
Tabu: wife eating first animal caught in trap.
Tabu: eating fish caught with fish-hook made without proper incantations.
Tabu: eating animals recklessly killed.
Tabu: eating live animals or live parts of them.
Tabu: eating certain vegetable.
Tabu: eating beans.
Tabu: eating forbidden herbs.
Tabu: eating breadfruit.
Tabu: horses' eating foreign provender.
Tabu: eating certain fruit.
Tabu: eating pomegranate seed.
Tabu: eating certain plant.
Why slayers of tigers must not eat certain plants.
Tabu: eating human flesh.
Why cannibalism is out of vogue.
Tabu: eating certain thing--miscellaneous.
Tabu: eating thick milk.
Tabu: women not to eat genitals (heart, liver, etc.
Tabu: eating griddle cakes (in Garden of Eden).
Tabu: eating firstlings (animals, fruit, etc.
Eating meat with milk.
Tabu: eating salt.
Tabu: feasting for a week.
Tabu: eating before certain time.
Tabu: girl eating before being called by father.
Tabu: eating before task is finished.
Tabu: eating before offering woman food.
Tabu: eating of magic catch before mother does.
Tabu: eating before house of host has been righted.
Eight handfuls of food only to be eaten during ceremony.
Tabu: eating before three years have passed.
Tabu: eating on journey.
Tabu: bride eating on journey to husband.
Tabu: eating while on visit home.
Tabu: eating flesh on Maundy Thursday.
Tabu: eating after a guest.
Tabu: feasting by night at beginning of harvest.
Tabu: eating food of gods.
Tabu: tasting milk of "cow of plenty", dedicated to the gods.
Tabu: eating chief's food.
Tabu: eating food of transformed husband.
Tabu: eating food of supernatural lover.
Tabu: eating food birds have pecked at.
Tabu: eating with person of certain caste.
Tabu: Jews eating with heathen.
Tabu: eating special food of noble girl.
Tabu: eating food laid on the grave.
Tabu: eating food kept for animals.
Tabu: drinking from certain fountain.
Tabu: drinking in other world.
Tabu: drinking from certain river between two darknesses.
Tabu: drinking milk.
Tabu: drinking wine.
Tabu: drinking wine touched by hand of heathen.
Tabu: drinking wine at certain time.
Tabu: drinking palm-drink: only prince allowed to break it.
Tabu: drinking water.
Tabu: drinking water during certain time.
Tabu: drinking water from certain bottle.
Miscellaneous eating and drinking tabus.
Tabu: drinking without presence of dead heads.
Tabu: refusing a feast.
Tabu: leaving a feast before it is ended.
Tabu: eating without giving thanks.
Tabu: eating alone.
Tabu: eating in company.
Tabu: partaking of certain feast.
Tabu: consuming feast without discovering a new wonder.
Tabu: refusing to eat food demanded and supplied.
Tabu: seeing the supernatural.
Tabu: seeing supernatural creatures.
Tabu: looking at ghosts.
Tabu: looking through the upturned sleeve of a fur coat.
Tabu: looking at fairies.
Tabu: looking at mountain-folk.
Tabu: looking at werewolf.
Tabu: observing supernatural helper.
Tabu: seeing witch in her true form.
Tabu: looking at slain game before it dies.
Tabu: looking at deity.
Gods flee at approach of dawn.
Tabu: looking at holy objects.
Tabu: man looking at woman.
Tabu: man looking at nude woman.
Tabu: man looking at nude goddess.
Tabu: looking at nude woman riding through town.
Tabu: looking at woman (miscellaneous).
Tabu: looking at princess on public appearance.
Tabu: looking at old woman helper as she eats.
Tabu: looking at supernatural woman who is dismembered.
Tabu: looking at women performing Bacchic rites.
Tabu: on looking at daughter for twelve years.
Tabu: woman looking at man.
Tabu: princess never to see male person.
Tabu: woman seeing nude man.
Tabu: goddess seeing mortal husband naked.
Tabu: looking at certain object.
Tabu: looking at certain boat.
Tabu: looking at heavenly body.
Looking at moon when shooting game.
Tabu: looking at sun.
Tabu: looking at sun before prince becomes fourteen years old.
Tabu: looking at rainbow.
Tabu: looking at water.
Tabu: looking at certain well.
Tabu: looking on certain island.
Tabu: looking at certain animal.
Tabu: seeing herd red-headed and white-starred.
Tabu: looking at caribou.
Tabu: looking at certain person or thing--miscellaneous.
Tabu: king forbidden to look at his son.
Tabu: seeing dead man not killed by weapons.
Tabu: looking into box (Pandora).
Tabu: opening too much of magic box at a time.
Tabu: opening gift box prematurely.
Tabu: looking into bag.
Bag of winds.
Tabu: opening bag too soon.
Tabu: looking into flask.
Tabu: looking into jug.
Tabu: looking into magic calabash.
Tabu: looking into the pots in hell.
Tabu: looking under certain bell too soon.
Tabu: looking into basket.
Tabu: opening corpse-wrapping.
Tabu: looking back.
Tabu: looking back over left shoulder.
Travelers to other world must not look back.
Tabu: looking back during flight.
Tabu: looking around.
Tabu: looking up.
Tabu: looking over cemetery walls, lest one see ghosts.
Tabu: looking down upon earth from sky world.
Tabu: woman in other world forbidden to look behind curtains.
Tabu: looking up chimney.
Tabu: speaking during certain time.
Tabu: speaking during vigil.
Tabu: speaking during seven days of danger.
Tabu: speaking while searching for treasure.
Tabu: speaking about lost money which is to be regained by witchcraft.
Tabu: speaking while raising sunken church bell.
Tabu: speaking while gathering fernseed to make wishes come true, at midnight on Christmas Eve when fernseed ripens and falls immediately.
Tabu: speaking while taking a bath.
Tabu: speaking before certain time.
Tabu: king speaking before his druids speak.
Tabu: people speaking before king speaks.
Silence preserved in fairyland.
Tabu: asking about marvels which one sees.
Tabu: asking for reason of an unusual action.
Tabu: expressing surprise in lower world of dead.
Tabu: asking prophet for signs.
Man (woman) persuaded to reveal fatal secret.
Tabu: not to speak about a certain happening.
Tabu: uttering secret overheard.
Tabu: revealing secret of supernatural husband.
Tabu: revealing identity of certain person.
Tabu: revealing dragon-fighter's identity.
Tabu: revealing the marvelous.
Tabu: disclosing source of magic power.
Tabu: speaking of extraordinary sight.
Tabu: revealing experiences in other world.
Tabu: uttering secrets heard from spirits.
Tabu: revealing sacred mysteries.
Tabu: telling children about lake monster.
Tabu: speaking of good luck.
Tabu: revealing knowledge of animal languages.
Tabu: revealing secret song.
Tabu: revealing help of grateful animal.
Tabu: revealing time of Messiah's advent.
Tabu: uttering secrets.
Tabu: mentioning secret water spring.
Tabu: uttering name of god (or gods).
Tabu: uttering name of supernatural creature.
Guessing name of supernatural creature gives power over him.
Tabu: uttering name of malevolent creature (Eumenides).
Person obnoxious for his sins spoken of as "the other".
Dangerous animals not to be named.
Tabu: uttering relative's name.
Tabu: uttering spouse's name.
Tabu: uttering name of supernatural wife.
Woman (fairy) causes twofold death of mortal husband who utters her name.
Tabu: uttering name of other close relations.
Tabu: uttering name of sister-in-law.
Tabu: disclosing own identity.
Tabu: giving child a name lest it die early.
Tabu: mentioning original form of transformed person.
Family dares not discuss tigers, fearing that son in form of tiger will return.
Tabu: mentioning land of person's birth.
Tabu: boasting of wealth.
Tabu: boasting of children (Niobe).
Tabu: boasting of love-conquest.
Tabu: boasting that one has no need of gods' help.
Tabu: boasting of fearlessness.
Tabu: bearded man laughing when shaken.
Tabu: laughing at sight of ghosts.
Whistling tabu.
Tabu: whistling in mine.
Tabu: singing.
Tabu: birds not to sing around home of goddess.
Tabu: weeping.
Tabu: people weeping in land of gods.
Tabu: whistling.
Tabu: whistling in other world.
Tabu: coughing.
Tabu: coughing in other world.
Substitutes for tabu expressions.
"Save it for the beggar" (substitute for "save it for tomorrow".
Tabu: expressing astonishment at marvel.
Tabu: screaming at terrible sight.
Tabu: speaking to strangers.
Tabu: thanking (under certain circumstances).
Tabu: wishing good luck.
Tabu: cursing.
Tabu: using any except one certain phrase.
All questions to be answered, "I don't know".
"We three"--"For gold"--"That is right".
"We three"--"For gold"--"That is right" devil's bargain.
"We three"--"For gold"--"That is right": phrases of foreign language.
"Yes"--"No"--"Very well".
All questions to be answered "Thanks".
Tabu: using obscene language.
Tabu: speaking to the dead.
Speaking tabu: the one forbidden expression.
Speaking tabu: the one forbidden expression--"Sorrow is not eternal".
Additional speaking tabus.
Tabu: announcing death directly.
Tabu: complimenting.
Tabu: contact with things belonging to a king.
Tabu: touching leaves (of tree).
Tabu: plucking ear of grain.
Tabu: breaking twig.
Tabu: cutting branches of tree.
Tabu: burning saja wood (terminalia tomentosa).
Tabu: touching (plucking) flowers.
Tabu: lying under tree.
Tabu: pulling nuts.
Tabu: cutting down tree.
Cutting elder tree fatal to man.
Cutting white thorn tree fatal to man who cuts it.
Tabu: touching tree (plant)--miscellaneous.
Tabu: harming tree in any way before burning it.
Tabu: dismounting from horse.
Tabu: dismounting from magic sack.
Tabu: plowing in certain place.
Tabu: digging.
Tabu: digging up certain stones.
Tabu: digging in fairy ring.
Tabu: disembarking from boat on return from other world.
Tabu: picking up card fallen to ground.
Tabu: touching sacred mountain.
Tabu: touching with iron.
Umbilical cord not to be cut with iron.
Tabu: touching water.
Tabu: touching box.
Tabu: touching magic box.
Tabu: stepping on bread (or otherwise misusing it).
Tabu: not to clean houses with cow-dung.
Tabu: touching certain animals.
Tabu: touching camel after he has retired from work.
Tabu: touching hairless dog.
Tabu: touching horse or moving dead cat or dog.
Tabu: contact with the dead.
Tabu: dead body not to be on ship.
Head of slain man must not be moved.
Tabu: touching bones of murdered person.
Tabu: lying on ancestors' bones.
Tabu: taking down corpse of hanged man.
Tabu: embalming.
Tabu: touching treasures of other world.
Tabu: contact with things on journey to hell.
Tabu: touching fire in other world.
Tabu: picking up comb from ground.
Tabu: crushing eggs.
Tabu: crushing lizard's eggs.
Tabu: touching certain clothes.
Tabu: touching old clothes.
Tabu: touching clothes of certain person.
Tabu: touching dress.
Tabu: striking certain rock.
Tabu: touching (miscellaneous).
Tabu: tiger and lion after having killed a man not to touch certain animals: cow,
buffalo, pig, deer, wild goat.
Tabu: touching a horse or moving a dead cat or dog.
Tabu: touching soldiers of enchanted (sleeping) army and their horses.
Untouchables.
Tabu: touching food of another caste.
Tabus of slaves.
Tabu: slave going near fetish.
Tabus of kings.
Tabu: king traveling alone.
Tabu: king having physical blemish.
Tabu: king allowing rapine during his reign.
Tabu: king settling quarrel among thralls.
Tabu: appearing before king without having been summoned.
Tabu: killing king, even at his own request.
Tabus of chiefs.
Tabu: chief being in ale-house when there is no story-telling.
Tabu: chief's troop not having a herald.
Tabu: chief to be in large company without wolf-hounds.
Cloth from certain bark tabu to all except chiefs.
Tabu: altar smoke from sacrifice touching young chief.
Tabu: teaching genealogy of chiefs to commoners.
Tabu: touching head of chief.
Tabu: chieftainess preparing food.
Tabu: chief going outdoors in spite of provocations.
Tabus of bearded men.
Tabu: labor by bearded man.
Tabu: bearded man being lazy.
Tabus of heroes.
Tabu: fish hero snaring a being in the bays of his land.
Tabu: birds feeding on hero's land without leaving him something.
Tabu: women leaving hero's land without his knowing it.
Tabu: women marrying until hero has chosen their husbands.
Tabu: warriors being in hero's land without receiving challenge from him.
Tabu: sex activity for warriors.
Tabus of princesses.
Tabu: eloping with king's daughter.
Tabu: princess stepping in water.
Tabus of poets.
Tabu: poets to be ignorant of national literature.
Tabus of a thief.
Tabus of priests.
Tabus of bastards.
Tabus of strangers.
Unique prohibition announced by mysterious voice.
Forbidden chamber.
Forbidden door.
Prince not to be given eighth key until after he has ruled for five years.
Forbidden stables.
Forbidden ladder.
Forbidden forest.
Forbidden road.
Forbidden direction of travel.
Tabu: going in a certain direction while tending cattle.
Tabu: hunting in certain part of forest.
Forbidden direction: not to step outside a certain line.
Forbidden direction: north.
Forbidden direction: south.
Forbidden direction: west.
Forbidden direction: east.
Tabu: going in direction either of sunset or sunrise.
Tabu: going through a wicket gate.
Forbidden body of water.
Forbidden lake (pool).
Hero not to swim in certain lake.
Lake forbidden at certain time.
Tabu: not to rest near a lake.
Certain pool to be approached only when properly attired.
Tabu: feasting visitor at certain place.
Forbidden country.
Forbidden (perilous) ford.
The one forbidden place--miscellaneous.
Forbidden hostel.
Tabu: going into wild boar's haunt.
Forbidden horse fair.
Tabu: women to be on certain island.
Forbidden tree.
Tree of knowledge forbidden.
Tabu: touching fruit.
Tabu: touching apple.
Tabu: touching banana.
Forbidden drinking horn.
Forbidden well.
Well upon which no one can look without losing his eyes.
Forbidden barrel.
Tabu: opening bottle.
Tabu: breaking the sabbath.
Tabu: journeying on sabbath.
Tabu: spinning on holy days.
Tabu: washing hair on sabbath.
Tabu: lighting or extinguishing lights on sabbath.
Tabu: writing on sabbath.
Tabu: playing music on sabbath.
Tabu: going abroad on Hallowe'en.
Tabu: fasting on holidays.
Tabu: giving ring at certain time.
Tabu: hunting on shortest day in the year.
Tabu: making war against certain tribe.
Tabu: making war against certain tribe on Tuesday.
Tabu: making peace with certain tribe.
Tabu: turning left side of chariot toward certain place.
The one forbidden thing: returning to home country after marrying fairy.
Customs connected with unique compulsion.
The one compulsory question.
Compulsion: taking back talisman which opened treasure mountain.
Only one certain gift must be accepted.
Only peacock on the steeple of the king's golden temple can be accepted as dowry.
Girl from elfland must eat earthly food in order to remain.
One must eat "death vegetable" whenever one sees it.
Compulsion to bathe in certain waters daily.
Injunction: to marry first woman met.
Injunction: to cohabit with first woman met after battle.
Injunction: protect certain stone from molestation.
Compulsion to go to certain place at certain time (or once each year).
The one compulsory song.
Compulsion to tell stories.
Curse laid upon man by stories he fails to tell: they creep out of his belly when he is asleep and talk.
Compulsion to give food to everyone met on journey.
Compulsion to answer cry.
Compulsion to regard hunting cry and follow hounds.
Compulsion to invite singer to feast.
Injunction: sleep where night overtakes you.
Compulsion to perform certain task yearly.
Compulsion to catch blackbird alive yearly.
Compulsion to kill one of certain hogs yearly.
Compulsion to leap yearly over stone one's size held in palm of hand.
Compulsion to hold festival at certain intervals.
Injunction: to give sample of food to dog before eating.
Injunction: to forsake woman who arouses love.
Tabu: to refuse help to a woman.
Injunction: to perform certain act daily.
Injunction: to visit saint daily.
Tabu: going into bath on return from serpent kingdom.
Tabu: staying too long in other world.
Tabu: staying too long in fairyland.
Forsaken merman.
Tabu: merman's wife not to stay till church benediction.
Tabu: wife of supernatural husband seeing old home.
Tabu: wife of merman staying too long at home (on visit).
Tabu: beast-husband staying too long at home: becomes sick.
Golden apple thrown to remind merman's wife not to forget to return to him.
Tabus concerning requests made in otherworld.
Only one present to be asked for at home of spirit son-in-law.
Tabu: speaking in otherworld.
Tabu: speaking in fairyland.
Tabu: making noise on way to other world.
Tabu: removing hats while in otherworld.
Tabu: bathing.
Tabu: bathing during certain time.
Tabu: bathing in certain place.
Tabu: bathing in clear stream.
Tabu: bathing without straining stream afterwards.
Tabu: cutting hair.
Tabu: shaving.
Tabu: cutting hair during certain time.
Tabu: combing hair.
Tabu: combing hair during certain time.
Tabu: attending call of nature at certain time.
Tabu: use of water after attending call of nature.
Tabu: trimming fingernails.
Tabu: throwing away nail trimmings.
Tabu: resting on journey.
Tabu: sleeping.
Tabu: sleeping during certain time.
Tabu: sleeping in certain position during certain time.
Tabu: bearded man sleeping at sunrise.
Tabu: sleeping before task is finished.
Tabu: sleeping in certain place.
Tabu: sleeping in other world.
Tabu: sleeping before lapse of seven days in cloudland.
Tabu: sleeping in empty hut.
Tabu: king (hero) sleeping after sunrise at capital.
Tabu: sleeping in house lighted after sunset.
Tabu: sleeping in cemetery.
Tabu: sleeping on the path of ghosts.
Tabu: sleeping on feather bed.
Tabu: sleeping two nights in the same place until certain result is attained.
Tabu: to rest sitting or lying until answer to certain question is learned.
Tabu: sleeping at one's own home.
Tabu: relieving souls in hell.
Tabu: striking monster twice.
Man must be killed with first blow: others will not harm him.
Tabu: putting house in order for one man.
Tabu: accepting an invitation.
Tabu: entertaining strangers.
Tabu: heeding pleas of old woman for food and warmth.
Tabu: watching a game without helping the losing player.
Tabu: not to allow any other creature on raft.
Tabu: doing thing at certain time.
Tabu: lighting fire at certain time.
Tabu: lighting fire before king lights one.
Tabu: sleeping with certain wife on Midsummer's Eve.
Tabu: convening certain hunt at certain time.
Tabu: going on water Monday after May Day.
Tabu: making treaty at certain time.
Tabu: leaving capital every ninth night.
Tabu: doing thing at sunrise.
Tabu: being in certain place at sunrise.
Tabu: carrying food at night.
Tabu: doing thing after certain time.
Tabu: doing thing after sunset (nightfall).
Tabu: bringing arms to capital after sunset.
Tabu: crossing certain plain after sunset.
Tabu: single person entering one's house after sunset.
Tabu: allowing person to come to feast after sunset.
Tabu: casting in graveyard after sunset.
Tabu: using magic power after nightfall.
Tabu: doing certain thing after sunrise.
Tabu: supernatural creatures being abroad after sunrise.
Conjurer must leave before sunrise.
Tabu: doing thing during certain time.
Tabu: leaving house within certain time.
Telling tales except at certain time of year (or day).
Tabu: coming to Ireland in time of peace.
Tabu: going to certain place in March.
Tabu: sitting on certain sepulchral mounds in autumn.
Tabu: hunting in certain season.
Tabu: hunting in hottest season.
Tabu: landing on certain island during forbidden period.
Tabu: going out at night by oneself.
Tabu: doing thing before certain time.
Tabu: ringing bell before certain time.
Tabu: going home before dog precedes.
Tabu: letting sun shine on girl before she is thirty years old.
Tabu: going home before adventure is completed.
Tabu: entering chariot less than three weeks after having eaten horseflesh.
Tabu: doing thing too soon.
Tabu: destroying animal skin of enchanted person too soon.
Tabu: telling adventure in otherworld too soon.
Tabu: doing thing too hastily.
Monster born because of hasty (inconsiderate) wish of parents.
Tabu: doing thing too long.
Tabu: remaining on journey too long.
Tabu: staying too long at home.
Tabu: staying too long at ball.
Tabu: staying too long in certain place.
Tabu: staying two nights in one place until certain event is brought to pass.
Tabu: staying too long in meadow of otherworld.
Tabu: angel to remain on earth more than one week.
Tabu: doing thing too often.
Tabu: using magic power too often.
Tabu: too much weeping for dead.
Tabu: whipping magic horse more than once on journey.
Tabu: taking more than one fruit from certain tree.
"Take, but only twice." Eating after one is satisfied.
Tabu: killing more cattle than one can eat.
Overweening pride in good fortune forbidden.
Tabu: building too large a structure.
Tabu: building too high a tower.
Wicked man constructs tower neither too large nor too high.
Tabu: piling up mountains to reach heaven.
Tabu: aspiring to too much power.
Tabu: making unreasonable requests.
Tabu: asking for too great magic multiplication of coins.
Tabu: counting possessions.
Tabu: buying.
Tabu: buying gallows flesh or living flesh.
Tabu: selling.
Tabu: selling used clothing.
Tabu: selling to witch.
Tabu: giving away.
Tabu: giving certain money away.
Tabu: giving away rings.
Tabu: lending.
Tabu: lending to witch.
Tabu: trying to save provision for another day.
Tabu: heeding persuasive voices.
Tabu: heeding persuasive voice of magic drum.
Tabu: heeding magic yam that says not to take it up.
Tabu: answering call when asleep.
Tabu: pursuing certain animal.
Tabu: listening to mother's counsel.
Tabu: listening to princess's counsel.
Tabu: finding age of monster.
Tabu: solving sphinx's riddle: sphinx perishes.
Tabu: finding name of ghost.
Tabu: studying occult books.
Tabu: spinning.
Tabus for journeys.
Tabu: crossing river except at source.
Tabu: turning aside for anyone.
Tabu: turning back after beginning a journey.
Tabu: driving horses over ashen yoke.
Tabu: going with dry feet over certain river.
Tabu: traveling beyond spot where feat of skill was performed before duplicating it.
Tabu: proceeding after mishap to chariot.
Tabu: going to certain place in speckled garment on speckled steed.
Men sent on mission prohibited from fishing and quarreling.
Tabus concerning fighting.
Tabu: refusing combat to anyone.
Tabu: bearded man refusing combat.
Tabus concerning weapons.
Tabu: failing to make gift to magic lance.
Tabu: allowing spear-head to touch stone.
Tabu: putting spear-head between teeth.
Tabu: slaying woman with spear.
Tabu: reddening weapons without satiety.
Tabu: giving arms in pledge.
Tabu: going to (leaving) certain place without combat.
Tabu: fighting certain person.
Tabu: fighting with a hag.
Tabu: disobedience.
Tabu: loosing bridle in selling man transformed to horse.
Tabu: killing certain animals.
Clerics' voyage unsuccessful because they sailed in boats of skin.
Tabu: wounding animal; must be killed outright.
Tabu: killing animal which takes refuge with one.
Tabu: killing stork.
Tabu: hunting birds.
Tabu: burning caterpillars.
Tabu: hunting a pig.
Tabu: killing a swan.
Tabu: killing golden duck.
Tabu: killing totem animal.
Tabu: killing deer.
Tabu: killing antelope.
Tabu: killing certain fish.
Tabu: killing albatross.
Killing albatross causes misfortune to follow killer.
Tabu: killing a cat.
Tabu: exposure to sunlight.
Tabu: working iron under direct rays of sun.
Tabu: pointing.
Tabu: pointing at rainbow.
Tabu: playing flute.
Tabus concerning war.
Tabu: bringing head of slain enemy within village walls.
Tabu: removing landmarks.
Tabu: giving away gifts received from animal.
Tabu: giving away gifts received from fish.
Tabu: sleeping on bed made of totem-tree.
Tabu: wastefulness.
Tabu: using food for unworthy purpose.
Tabu: wiping children with bread.
Tabu: using grain to clean child.
Tabu: throwing "living fire" into river.
Tabus concerning entry into assembly.
Tabu: holding meeting at certain place.
Tabu: going to assembly of women at certain place.
Tabu: doing thing in certain manner.
Tabu: making withershins circuit.
Tabu: inciting horse at certain place.
Tabu: swimming with certain birds.
Tabu: following three red men to certain place.
Tabu: running a race.
Tabu: racing pigeons.
Tabu: unusual cruelty.
Tabu: abusing women or children.
Tabu: bearded men abusing women and children.
Tabu: leaving land entirely unoccupied.
Tabu: refusing a request.
Tabu: bearded man refusing request.
Tabu: turning away from (refusing requests of) poets.
Tabu: breaking up revelry before its end.
Tabu: carrying child on one's back into house.
Tabu: leaping a camping place.
Tabu concerning clothing.
Tabu: wearing satin.
Tabu: wearing silk.
Tabu: going to battle without being clothed in silk.
Tabu: grumbling.
Tabu: grumbling at narrowness of certain boat.
Tabu: watching game without aiding loser.
Tabu: crossing graveyard without alighting.
Tabu: concerning riding horses.
Tabu: halting or unloading horse.
Tabu: allowing horse to lose his bridle, stray or stale.
Tabu: hearing or listening.
Tabu: listening to fluttering of birds after sunset.
Tabu: listening to groans of women being violated.
Tabu: listening to certain lute.
Tabu: plowing with ass and ox together.
Tabu: being in same house with fire, weapon, dog.
Tabu: using leaven for cooking.
Tabu: uncleanliness.
Tabu: riding dirty on black-heeled horse across certain plain.
Tabu: bearded man going dirty to bed.
Tabu: urinating on fire.
Tabu: stranger to play with someone without asking permission.
Tabu: making use of blood.
Tabu: using stone fish-hooks.
Tabus concerning counting.
Tabu: counting the stars.
Tabu: taking census.
Tabu: calculating time of Messiah's advent.
Tabus concerned with mourning.
Additional unclassified tabus.
Tabu: hiding iron.
Tabu imposed.
Tabu imposed by certain person.
Tabu imposed on son by father before death.
Tabu imposed by druid.
Tabu imposed by lover.
Tabu imposed by forthputting woman.
Tabu imposed by host.
Tabu imposed by fairy.
Tabu imposed by saint.
Tabu imposed at birth.
Tabu imposed by magic.
Punishment for breaking tabu: assigner of punishment suffers his own penalty.
King breaks his own tabu and meets with the punishment he has set for violation of it.
Supernatural being punishes breach of tabu.
Dwarf punishes for breach of tabu.
Moon punishes for breach of tabu.
Golden finger as sign of opening forbidden chamber.
Hair turns to gold as punishment in forbidden chamber.
Bloody key as sign of disobedience.
Bloody egg as sign of disobedience.
Contents of forbidden receptacle are released.
Troubles escape when forbidden casket is opened.
Music-box continues playing when it is touched contrary to tabu.
Animals escape when forbidden baskets opened.
Animals escape when forbidden calabash is opened.
Continuous action started by breaking tabu.
Trespass betrayed by dripping candle.
Animals produced when forbidden drum is beaten.
Magic porridge-pot keeps cooking.
Spinning wheel continues spinning because woman has worked at forbidden time.
Object magically appears when tabu is broken.
Tabued pot broken: town appears.
Mare from water world disappears when she is scolded and her halter used for common purposes.
Marvelous cow offended disappears.
Death of children for breaking tabu.
Death of wife for breaking tabu.
Immediate death for breaking tabu.
Death by smothering for breaking tabu.
Death by choking for breaking tabu.
Death by drowning for breaking tabu.
Death by thirst for breaking tabu.
Death from rattlesnake bite because of breaking tabu.
Man (woman) vanishes on breaking of tabu.
Burning as punishment for breaking tabu.
Person turned to dust.
Falling to ashes as punishment for breaking tabu.
Burning and drowning as punishment for breaking tabu.
Death from insanity as punishment for breaking tabu.
Death for breaking tabu--miscellaneous.
"Shame and disgrace" threatened for refusing love of forthputting woman.
Death from specific disease for breaking tabu.
Death from paralysis for breaking tabu.
Beheading for breaking tabu.
Death by stoning for breaking tabu.
Death by being swallowed for breaking tabu.
Man sacrificed to the gods for breaking tabu.
Dishonor to children because of breaking tabu.
Building falls because of breaking of tabu.
Loss of wife (husband) for breaking tabu.
Luck in hunting (fishing) lost for breaking tabu.
Luck in hunting lost for breaking tabu.
Luck in fishing lost for breaking tabu.
Food supply fails because of broken tabu.
Loss of crops because of broken tabu.
Land made sterile because of broken tabu.
Elves set country afire because of broken tabu.
Helpful animal disappears when tabu is broken.
War lost because of breaking tabu.
God's favor lost for breaking tabu.
Immortality lost because of breach of tabu.
Rulers of inferior character after tabu is broken.
Loss of fortune for breaking tabu--miscellaneous.
Punishment for breaking tabu: water withdrawn from lake.
Punishment for broken tabu: good money turns to counterfeit.
Felled trees (cut weeds) return to their places because of broken tabu.
Golden Age ends as result of broken tabu.
Princess's secret sickness from breaking tabu.
Daughters' sickness because of father's breaking tabu.
Particular disease caused by breaking tabu.
Leprosy from breaking tabu.
Swelling of limbs from breaking tabu.
Sores on body from breaking tabu.
Sore mouth as punishment for breaking tabu.
Plague for breaking tabu.
Paralysis as punishment for broken tabu.
Loss of strength from broken tabu.
Loss of magic strength by smoking.
Magic horse becomes powerless because of broken tabu.
Weakness from seeing woman (fairy) naked.
Woman's breasts dry up because of broken tabu.
Loss of sight for breaking tabu.
Man receives fork in eye for breaking tabu.
Loss of one eye for breaking tabu.
Sore eyes from breaking tabu.
Dumbness as punishment for breaking tabu.
Magic forgetfulness for breaking tabu.
Limbs affected by breaking tabu.
Limb broken for stepping on grave.
Arm shortened for breaking tabu.
Magic growth of members for breaking tabu.
Magic power lost by breaking tabu.
Mutilation as punishment for breaking tabu.
Mouth expanded because of broken tabu.
Nose to be cut off as punishment for breaking tabu.
Tongue of woman who breaks tabu protrudes and entwines itself around a post in the home.
Man's liver snatched away because of broken tabu.
Man's lungs cut out because of broken tabu.
Hand cut off for broken tabu.
Face chilled because of broken tabu.
Head shattered for breaking tabu.
Sickness or weakness for breaking tabu--miscellaneous.
Insanity for breaking tabu.
Baldness from breaking tabu.
Sterility from breaking tabu.
Bleeding from breaking tabu.
Continued thirst from breaking tabu.
Immediate return to other world because of broken tabu.
Person must remain in other world because of broken tabu.
Person carried off to other world for breaking tabu.
Banishment from heaven for breaking tabu.
Transformation to object for breaking tabu.
Transformation to pillar of salt for breaking tabu.
Transformation to stone for breaking tabu.
Transformation to wood for breaking tabu.
Transformation to wooden image for breaking tabu.
Transformation to tree for breaking tabu.
Transformation to mountain ridge for breaking tabu.
Transformation to anthill for breaking tabu.
Transformation to animal for breaking tabu.
Transformation to mouse for breaking tabu.
Transformation to bird for breaking tabu.
Person returns to original form when tabu is broken.
Person returns to original animal form when tabu is broken.
Person returns to original egg form when tabu is broken.
Person returns to original vegetable form when tabu is broken.
Giants return to life if tabu is broken.
Change of language for breaking tabu.
Valuable object turns to worthless, for breaking tabu.
Disenchantment for breaking tabu.
Person beaten by whips for breaking tabu.
Person must remain on mountain because of broken tabu.
Disaster because of broken tabu.
Great wind because of broken tabu.
Storm because of broken tabu.
Flood because of broken tabu.
Tidal wave for breaking tabu.
Sea rolls in over the land from all sides and a sea serpent comes because of broken tabu.
Disastrous lightning for breaking tabu.
General conflagration for breaking tabu.
Village sinks in earth for violation of tabu.
Island split apart for broken tabu.
Physical changes in person because of broken tabu.
Skin changes color because of broken tabu.
Teeth blackened as punishment for breaking tabu.
Foul breath from breaking tabu.
Abduction by animal for breaking tabu.
Pursuit by animal for breaking tabu.
Curse as punishment for breaking tabu.
Quest imposed for breaking tabu.
Snake bite for broken tabu.
Unborn child affected by mother's broken tabu.
Punishment by adhesion for breaking tabu.
Sleeplessness from breaking tabu.
Person falls because of broken tabu.
Trees wither because of broken tabu.
A Classification of Narrative Elements in Folktales, Ballads, Myths, Fables, Mediaeval Romances,
Exempla, Fabliaux, Jest-Books, and Local Legends
Indiana University ISBN 0-253-33882-4
5 89 complete set ISBN 0-253-33887-5
Enchanted person.
Enchanted person cannot move.
Stepson cursed to stick in grave mound till pretty girl wants to substitute for him.
Enchanted person on bier.
Enchanted castle (building).
Enchanted valley.
Ogre has unique powers of exchange of sex with human being.
Change of sex after crossing water.
Transformation woman to man.
Transformation: ogress to man.
Woman transforms herself into a bird and lends her female organ to a boy.
Transformation: man to woman.
Transformation: god to giantess.
Transformation: common man to exalted personage.
Transformation: common man to grand officer.
Transformation: man of low caste takes on prince's appearance, and transforms prince to take on his.
Transformation to artisan.
Transformation into a boatman.
Transformation to humble person.
Transformation: king to menial.
Transformation: king and queen to peasant and wife.
Transformation into a swineherd.
Transformation: rich man to tramp.
Transformation layman to professional man.
Transformation to doctor.
Transformation into a cleric (monk).
Transformation into leper.
Transformation into giant.
Transformation to a person of different social class--miscellaneous.
Transformation into a churl (bachlach).
Transformation into juggler.
Transformation: white person to negro.
Transformation to likeness of person whose shield one carries.
Transformation to likeness of another woman.
Transformation to resemble man's mistress so as to be able to kill him.
Humble man in guise of exalted.
Transformation to likeness of ruler.
God in guise of mortal.
God transformed to giant with three heads and six arms.
Spirit takes shape of man.
Transformation: mortal to guise of deity.
Animal transformed to a god.
Dog turned into a god.
Mortal in guise of spirit.
Transformation: man to angel.
Persons exchange forms.
Kings exchange forms and kingdoms for a year.
Gods exchange forms.
Two friends exchange forms.
Girl exchanges form with sorceress in order to visit her brother and get a son by him.
Transformation to likeness of monster.
Mortal temporarily takes shape of demon.
Transformation: normal men to ogres.
Transformation: princess to ogress.
Transformation to likeness of another person--miscellaneous.
Dwarf assumes human form.
Spirit takes any form.
Fairy transforms herself into a monstrous being with head of an ape, thin legs, sharp claws, fish scales and bristles.
Magic change to different appearance.
Transformation: man becomes hideous.
Ugly man becomes handsome.
Transformation in health.
Transformation to sick man.
Magic change of person's size.
Person becomes magically larger.
Man magically stretches self to overcome cliff.
Man magically stretches self to overcome opponent in battle.
Man magically stretches self to sink tent pole.
Transformation: person to giant.
Pygmy turns into a giant.
Person becomes magically smaller.
Dwarf contracts self to enter nostrils of cannibals.
Devil (troll) makes self small.
Giant changes to normal size.
Ten serving-women carried in bottle.
Transformation: adult to child.
Hero reduces in size small enough to get into mango seed.
Magic change in person's age.
Transformation to older person.
Change in person's color.
Man transformed to green knight.
Black man's color altered to white.
Hair and skin turn to color of gold.
Transformation to black man.
Transformation to person of rusty color.
Magic appearance of human limbs.
Transformation: normal man to cannibal.
Transformation: wild man to normal.
Transformation: prince to old man.
Transformation: man to ogre.
Transformation: normal man to ascetic.
Transformation: man to witch.
Transformation: children into horsemen.
Transformation: god to animal.
Transformation: devil to animal.
Transformation: demon to animal.
Assembly or group transformed to animals.
Transformation: man to feline animal (wild).
Transformation: man to lion.
Village of lion-men.
Transformation: man to tiger.
Wer-tiger.
When a wer-tiger is injured, similar marks appear on the human body of man who has possessed it.
Village of tiger-men.
Transformation: man to lynx.
Transformation: man to leopard.
Transformation: man to buffalo.
Transformation: man to jaguar.
Transformation: man to canine animal (wild).
Transformation: man to wolf.
Werwolf.
God (goddess) assumes form of a wolf.
Transformation: man to bear.
Wer-bear.
Transformation man to fox.
Transformation: man to jackal.
Transformation: deity to jackal.
Transformation: man to hyena.
Transformation: man to ungulate (wild).
Transformation: man to bovine animal (wild).
Transformation: man to deer.
Transformation: girl to deer (fawn) (by druid).
Transformation: woman to doe.
Transformation: man to eland.
Transformation: man to hartebeest.
Transformation: man to buffalo.
Transformation: man to musk ox.
Transformation: man to caribou.
Transformation: man to moose.
Transformation: man to elephant.
Transformation: man to swine (wild).
Transformation: man to peccary.
Transformation: man to boar.
Transformation: god to boar.
Transformation: man to wild goat.
Transformation: man to equine animal (wild).
Transformation: man to zebra.
Transformation: man to rodent.
Transformation: man to mouse.
Transformation: man to hare (rabbit).
Transformation: man to rat.
Transformation: man to bandicoot.
Transformation: man to marmot.
Transformation: man to simian.
Transformation: man to ape.
Transformation: man (woman) to monkey.
Transformation: man to wild animal--mustelidae.
Transformation: man to weasel.
Transformation: man to ermine.
Transformation: man to marten.
Transformation: man to badger.
Transformation: man to sea mammal.
Transformation: man to seal.
Transformation: man to otter.
Transformation: man to whale.
Transformation: man to walrus.
Transformation: man to dolphin.
Transformation: man to porpoise.
Transformation: man to horse.
Transformation: merman to horse.
Transformation: man to ass (mule, jennet, etc.).
Transformation: man to ass.
Transformation: man to mule.
Transformation to cow (bull, calf, etc.).
Transformation to cow.
Nisser in form of cows.
Transformation: man to bull.
Transformation: man to ox.
Transformation: man to calf.
God assumes form of calf.
Transformation: man to steer (bullock).
Transformation: man to goat (he-goat, she-goat, kid etc.).
Transformation: man to he-goat.
Transformation: man to she-goat.
Transformation: man to kid.
Transformations supernatural being into a goat.
Transformation: man to sheep.
Transformation: man to lamb.
Transformation: man to swine.
Transformation: man to dog.
Kynanthropy.
Men and women transformed to dogs by druidic spell.
Transformation: woman to bitch.
Transformation: girl to puppy.
Transformation: man to cat.
Transformation: woman to cat.
Devil as cat.
God assumes form of a cat.
Transformation: man to bird--passeriform.
Transformation: man to swallow.
Transformation: man to finch.
Transformation into snowbunting.
Transformation: man to nightingale.
Transformation: man to crow.
Transformation: man to raven.
Transformation: man to titmouse.
Transformation: man to blackbird.
Transformation: man to sparrow.
Transformation: man to magpie.
Transformation: man to bird--falconiform.
Transformation: man to hawk.
Transformation: god to hawk.
Transformation: man to eagle.
Transformation: man to vulture.
Transformation: girl to falcon.
Odin as falcon.
Transformation: man to osprey.
Transformation: man to kite.
Transformation: man to bird--coraciiform.
Transformation: man to woodpecker.
Transformation: man to owl.
Transformation: man to hornbill.
Transformation: man to bird--charadriiform.
Transformation: man to dove.
Transformation: god to dove.
Transformation: man to pigeon.
Transformation: man to snipe.
Transformation: man to gull.
Transformation: man to bird--ciconiiform.
Transformation: man to stork.
Transformation: man to cuckoo.
Transformation: man to parrot.
Transformation: man to bird of anatidae group (duck).
Transformation: man to swan.
Transformation: man to goose.
Transformation: man to gander.
Transformation: man to duck.
Transformation: man to crane.
Transformation: man to gallinaceous bird.
Transformation: man to chicken (cock, hen).
Transformation: man to cock.
Transformation: man to peacock.
Transformation: man to turkey.
Transformation: person to ptarmigan.
Transformation: man to bird--miscellaneous.
Transformation: woman to waterfowl.
Transformation: magician to paddy-bird.
Transformation: man to toucan.
Transformation: man to cassowary.
Transformation: man to carp.
Transformation: man to eel.
God assumes form of an eel.
Transformation: man to cuttlefish.
Transformation: man to crab.
Transformation: god to crab.
Transformation: man to salmon.
Transformation: man (woman) to catfish.
Transformation: man to shark.
Transformation: man to fish--miscellaneous.
Transformation: man to trout.
Transformation: man to pike.
Transformation: man to sardine.
Transformation: man to shrimp.
Transformation: man to sword-fish.
Transformation: man to spider.
Transformation: man to hymoptera.
Transformation: man to bee.
Transformation: man to bumblebee.
Transformation: man to ant.
Transformation: man to orthoptera.
Transformation: man to cicada.
Transformation: man to cricket.
Transformation: man to coleoptera.
Transformation: man to beetle.
Transformation: man to firefly.
Transformation: man to diptera.
Transformation: man to fly.
Transformation: woman (fairy) to fly.
Transformation: man to flea.
Transformation: man to gnat.
Transformation: man to lepidoptera.
Transformation: man to butterfly.
Transformation: man to serpent (snake).
Lucifer as serpent.
Transformation: man to worm (often==snake).
Transformation: demon (in human form) to worm.
Transformation: man to caterpillar.
Transformation: man to centipede.
Transformation: man to tortoise (turtle).
Transformation: man to crocodile.
Wer-crocodile.
Transformation: man to alligator.
Transformation: man to frog.
Transformation: man to toad.
Transformation: man to lizard.
Transformation: man to iguana.
Transformation: man to snail.
Transformation: man to other animals than those already treated.
Transformation: man to centaur.
Transformation: man to dragon.
Magician fights as dragon.
Transformation: woman to siren.
Plants as transformed bodies of gods.
Transformation: man to fruit.
Transformation: man (woman) to orange.
Transformation: man (woman) to pomegranate.
Transformation: woman (man) to belfruit.
Transformation: man (woman) to mango.
Transformation: man to apple.
Transformation: man to peach.
Transformation: man (woman) to flower.
Transformation: man (woman) to carnation.
Transformation: man (woman) to rose.
Transformation: woman to lotus.
Transformation: man to plant.
Transformation: man to cockscomb plant.
Transformation: man to rosebush.
Transformation: man to turmeric plant.
Transformation: man to vine.
Transformation: man to thorns.
Transformation: man to plantain stalk.
Transformation to grain.
Transformation: man to rice-grain.
Transformation: man to maize.
Transformation: man to tree.
Transformation: man (woman) to laurel.
Transformation: man to pear tree.
Transformation: man (woman) to ash tree.
Transformation: man (woman) to linden tree.
Transformation: man to apple tree.
Transformation: man (woman) to mulberry tree.
Transformation: man (woman) to almond tree.
Transformation: man (woman) to mango tree.
Transformation: man to log.
Transformation: man to stick.
Transformation: man to sheaf of grain.
Transformation: man (woman) to paddy-sheaf.
Transformation: man to gourd (calabash).
Transformation: man to nut.
Transformation: man to peanut.
Transformation: man to grass.
Transformation: man to reed.
Transformation: man to seaweed.
Transformation: man to stone.
Transformation: man to millstone.
Transformation: man to marble column.
Mass transformation of wedding party to marble statues, etc.
Transformation: man to shell.
Transformation: man (woman) to golden object.
Transformation: man (god) to shower of gold.
Transformation: woman to golden stool.
Transformation: man to coral.
Transformation: man to salt.
Transformation: man to oil.
Transformation: man to pumice.
Transformation: man to dish.
Transformation: man to saucepan.
Transformation: man to pot.
Transformation: man to needle.
Transformation: man to musical instrument.
Transformation: man to fiddle.
Transformation: man to boat.
Transformation: man to canoe.
Transformation: man to wheel.
Transformation: man to hatchel.
Transformation: man to fishhook.
Transformation: man to altar.
Transformation: man to ornament.
Transformation: man to ring.
Transformation: man to necklace.
Transformation: man (girl) to comb.
Transformation: man to beads.
Transformation: man to crown.
Transformation: man (woman) to skein of silk.
Transformation: man to mat.
Transformation: man to pick-handle.
Transformation: man to building.
Transformation: man to church.
Transformation: man to housepost.
Transformation: man to figure on ridgepole of house.
Transformation: man to meat.
Transformation: man to lard.
Transformation: man to feather.
Transformation: man to egg.
Transformation: man to storm.
Transformation: man to wind.
Transformation: man to whirlwind.
Transformation: man to lightning.
Transformation: man to thunder.
Transformation: man to water.
Transformation: man (woman) to pool of water.
Transformation to spring of water.
Transformation: watersprite to flood.
Transformation: person to seafoam.
Transformation: man to ocean wave.
Transformation: man (woman) to island.
Transformation: man to fire.
Transformation: god to fire.
Transformation: man to smoke.
Transformation: man to ashes.
Transformation: man to mound.
Transformation: man to ant-hill.
Transformation: man to pillar of earth.
Transformation: man to mountain.
Transformation: man to hair.
Transformation: man to star.
Transformation into puff of dust.
Transformation: man to spittle.
Transformation: feline animal to person.
Transformation: lion to person.
Transformation: tiger to person.
Transformation: leopard to person.
Transformation: canine animal to person.
Transformation: fox to person.
Transformation: wolf to man.
Transformation: bear to person.
Transformation: hyena to man.
Transformation: ungulate animal (wild) to person.
Transformation: bovine animal (wild) to person.
Transformation: antelope to person.
Transformation: caribou to person.
Transformation: deer to woman.
Transformation: gazelle to person.
Transformation: elephant to person.
Transformation: rodent to man.
Transformation: rat to person.
Transformation: mouse to person.
Transformation: badger to person.
Transformation: squirrel to person.
Transformation: hare (rabbit) to person.
Transformation: simian to person.
Transformation: monkey to person.
Transformation: sea-mammal to person.
Transformation: otter to person.
Transformation: seal to person.
Transformation: equine animal (domestic) to person.
Transformation: ass (donkey) to person.
Transformation: bovine animal to person.
Transformation: bull to man.
Transformation: calf to person.
Transformation: goat to person.
Transformation: swine to person.
Transformation: pig to person.
Transformation: dog to person.
Transformation: bitches to women.
Transformation: cat to person.
Transformation: falconiform to person.
Transformation: hawk to person.
Transformation: eagle to person.
Transformation: falcon to person.
Transformation: coraciiform to person.
Transformation: woodpecker to person.
Transformation: charidiiform to person.
Transformation: dove to person.
Transformation: gull to person.
Transformation: parrot to person.
Transformation: swan to person.
Swan Maiden.
Swan Maiden finds her hidden wings and resumes her form.
Transformation: goose to person.
Transformation: duck to person.
Fish cleaned by girl becomes man.
Transformation: eel to person.
Transformation: crab to man.
Transformation: salmon to person.
Transformation: spider to man.
Transformation: hymenoptera to person.
Transformation: bee to person.
Transformation: ant to person.
Transformation: serpent (snake) to person.
Transformation: worm to person.
Transformation: frog to person.
Transformation: toad to man.
Transformation: lizard to person.
Transformation: snail to person.
Transformation: other animals than those already treated to person.
Transformation: water-dragon to person.
Transformation: mammal (wild) to another animal.
Transformation: squirrel to another animal.
Transformation: squirrel to horse.
Transformation: rat to another animal.
Transformation: white rat to white-winged elephant.
Transformation: hare (rabbit) to another animal.
Transformation: hare to leopard.
Transformation: antelope to another animal.
Transformation: antelope to dog.
Transformation: antelope to goat.
Transformation: monkey to other animal.
Transformation: monkey to eagle.
Transformation: monkey to candle-moth.
Transformation: monkey to ant.
Transformation: monkey to ox.
Transformation: mouse to another animal.
Transformation: mouse to horse.
Transformation: mouse to cat.
Transformation: seal to another animal.
Transformation: seal to horse.
Transformation: fox to snake.
Transformation: gorilla to eagle.
Transformation: bear to goose.
Parts of bears fall off and become geese.
Transformation: mammal (domestic) to another animal.
Transformation: domestic to wild animal.
Transformation: cat to another animal.
Transformation: cat to horse.
Transformation: cat to toad.
Transformation: cat to dog.
Transformation: cow (ox) to another animal.
Transformation: herd of cattle to wolves.
Transformation: ox-demon to pig.
Transformation: ox-demon to tiger.
Transformation: ox-demon to leopard.
Transformation: ox-demon to bear.
Transformation: ox-demon to elephant.
Transformation: swine becomes another animal.
Transformation: pig-fairy to fish.
Transformation: pig to fish.
Transformation: boar-pigs into he-goats.
Transformation: sows into she-goats.
Transformation: pig to dragon.
Transformation: horse to another animal.
Transformation: packhorse to palfrey.
Transformation: dog to another animal.
Transformation: dog to dove (transformed man).
Transformation: hound to lap-dog.
Transformation: dog to otter.
Animal that is hound by day, sheep by night.
Transformation: dog to leopard.
Transformation: dog to spider.
Transformation: dog to snake.
Transformation: ass to horse.
Transformation: sheep to grasshoppers.
Transformation: bird to another animal.
Transformation: hawk to salmon (transformed man).
Transformation: raven to water bird.
Transformation: insect to another animal.
Transformation: mantis to another animal.
Transformation: mantis to hartebeest.
Transformation: reptile to other animal.
Transformation: serpent (snake) to other animal.
Transformation: python to gorilla.
Transformation: snake to dragon.
Transformation: serpent to mosquito.
Transformation: worm to other animal.
Transformation: worm to serpent.
Transformation: worm to dog.
Transformation: miscellaneous animals to other animals.
Transformation: dragon to other animal.
Transformation: sea dragon to serpent.
Transformation: dragon to horse.
Transformation: mammal (wild) to object.
Transformation: wolf to object.
Transformation: wolf to tree.
Transformation: antelope to object.
Transformation: antelope to nut.
Transformation: doe to bubble of water (enchanted woman).
Transformation: elephant to object.
Transformation: elephant to lotus.
Transformation: elephant to stone.
Transformation: tiger to object.
Transformation: tigress to mortar.
Transformation: deer to object.
Transformation: stag to wind.
Transformation: bear to object.
Transformation: bear to bow.
Transformation: whale to object.
Transformation: whale to skull.
Transformation: mammal (domestic) to object.
Transformation: horse to object.
Transformation: horse to river.
Transformation: horse to stone.
Transformation: dog to object.
Transformation: dead dog to money.
Transformation: dog to pumpkin.
Transformation: dog to statue.
Transformation: pig to object.
Transformation: pig to bread.
Transformation: bird (fowl) to object.
Transformation: goose to object.
Transformation: flock of geese to stone.
Transformation: quails to sticks and pebbles.
Transformation: duck to precious stone.
Transformation: buzzard to door flap.
Transformation: insect to object.
Transformation: butterfly to bamboo.
Transformation: reptile to object.
Transformation: snake to object.
Transformation: snake to stone.
Transformation: snake to jewel.
Transformation: snake to gold.
Transformation: snake to garland.
Transformation: snake to ship.
Transformation: fish to object.
Transformation: eel to object.
Transformation: eel to stone.
Transformation: eel to dry land.
Transformation: octopus to stone.
Transformation: amphibian to object.
Transformation: frog to object.
Transformation: frog to tree.
Transformation: animal to object--miscellaneous.
Transformation: water monster to Milky Way.
Transformation: dragon to object.
Transformation: dragon-king to gust of wind.
Transformation: dragon to stone.
Transformation: man-eating giantess to stone.
Transformation: vegetable form to person.
Transformation: flower to person.
Transformation: rose to person.
Transformation: carnation to person.
Transformation: tree to person.
Transformation: leaf (of tree) to person.
Transformation: fruit to person.
Transformation: grass to person.
Transformation: grass to soldiers.
Transformation: plant to person.
Woman emerges from plant.
Transformation: reed to person.
Transformation: corn to person.
Transformation: root (bulb) of plant to person.
Transformation: sections of bamboo to persons.
Transformation: nut to person.
Transformation: mineral form to person.
Transformation: stone to person.
Transformation: shell to person.
Every piece of shattered cowrie-shell turns into an armed man.
Transformation: jewel to person.
Transformation: ruby to person.
Transformation: manufactured object to person.
Transformation: utensil to person.
Transformation: rope to person.
Transformation: canoe-bailer to person.
Transformation: coffin cover to person.
Transformation: image to person.
Transformation: statue to person.
Transformation: statue comes to life.
Transformation: dolls change to fairies when flute is played.
Image of boy made of flowers comes to life.
Wax prince animated by serpent becomes human being.
Transformation: stone lion to man.
Transformation: picture to person.
Picture comes to life.
Transformation: manufactured object to person.
Transformation: utensil to person.
Transformation: rope to person.
Transformation: canoe-bailer to person.
Transformation: coffin cover to person.
Transformation: part of animal or person to person.
Human bone transforms self to person.
Animal bone transforms self to person.
Transformation: feather to person.
Transformation: excrements to person.
Transformation: spittle to person.
Transformation: miscellaneous objects to persons.
Transformation: tow to person.
Transformation: coal to person.
Transformation: water bubble to person.
Transformation: egg to person.
Woman emerges from egg.
Transformation: heavenly body to person.
Transformation: moon to person.
Transformation: star to person.
Fire takes the form of a woman and runs away.
Transformation: vegetable form to animal.
Transformation: tree to animal.
Transformation: fruit to animal.
Transformation: fruit to birds.
Transformation: branch of tree to animal.
Transformation: faggots to chargers.
Transformation: log to bear.
Transformation: plant to animal.
Transformation: fern to animal.
Transformation: leaves to animal.
Transformation: leaves to eels.
Transformation: banana leaf to fish.
Transformation: embers into animal.
Transformation: ashes into animals.
Transformation: sticks of wood to animal.
Transformation: rod to serpent.
Transformation: piece of cotton to snake.
Transformation: straw to snake.
Transformation: wisp of hay to horse.
Transformation: chips of wood to animal.
Transformation: mineral form to animal.
Transformation: stone to animal.
Transformation: earth (dirt) to animal.
Transformation: earth to lice.
Transformation: grave to animal.
Transformation: gold to animal.
Transformation: manufactured object to animal.
Transformation: money of the hard-hearted to scorpions.
Transformation: meat to toad.
Transformation: pill to white rabbit.
Transformation: bread to serpents.
Transformation: book-satchel to bird.
Transformation: drinking horn to dragon.
Transformation: armring to serpent.
Transformation: mortar to tigress.
Transformation: pouch to parts of body of ptarmigan.
Transformation: dress to animal.
Transformation: dress to butterfly.
Transformation: mitten to dog.
Duck's sandals transformed to part of his feet.
Transformation: oars and masts to serpents.
Transformation: image of animal vivified.
Image of horse vivified.
Image of horse will be vivified only for one person.
Images of parrots vivified.
Image of golden calf vivified.
Transformation: parts of animal or human body to animal.
Transformation: hair to animal.
Transformation: hair to monkey.
Transformation: hair to insect.
Transformation: hair to serpent.
Transformation: skull to water-monster.
Transformation: blood to animal.
Transformation: blood drops to toads.
Transformation: blood drops to serpents.
Transformation: blood of gorgon to flying horse.
Transformation: fishtail to shark.
Transformation: toes of sorceress to dogs.
Transformation: tooth to fox.
Transformation: pig's bones to pig.
Transformation: bone to dog.
Parts of sorcerer's body turn into serpents.
Transformation: brain to giant serpent.
Transformation: miscellaneous objects to animals.
Magic charm turns sweets into bugs.
Transformation: corpse to serpent.
Transformation: treasure to ducks.
Transformation: snow to dogs.
Transformation of vegetable form.
Transformation: tree to other object.
Transformation: branch of tree to palace.
Transformation: ash to hazel.
Transformation: plant to other object.
Transformation: rush to leek.
Transformation: rushes to grain.
Transformation: wheat to barley.
Transformation: oats to wheat.
Transformation: cotton to leaves.
Transformation: fruit to other object.
Transformation: apples to grain.
Transformation: coconut to philosopher's stone.
Transformation: pumpkin to carriage.
Transformation: apples to pig bristles (frog legs).
Transformation: flowers to other object.
Transformation: flowers to gold beads.
Transformation: lotus to human hand.
Hibiscus blossom transformed to canoe.
Transformation: grass to other object.
Transformation: blade of grass to horse.
Transformation: blade of grass to knife.
Transformation: blade of grass to gun.
Transformation: grass to beard.
Transformation: pieces of grass turned into stone steps.
Transformation: roll of grass into gold.
Transformation: wisp of hay to bridge.
Transformation: stick (log) to other object.
Transformation: wand to other object.
Transformation: wand to bridge.
Stick thrust in ground changes into spirit hut.
Transformation: stick to weapon.
Transformation: nut to another object.
Transformation: nut to palace.
Transformation: leaf to another object.
Transformation: leaves to cotton.
Transformation: leaf to knife.
Transformation: vegetable to other object.
Transformation: peas to stones.
Transformation of mineral form.
Transformation: rock (stone) to other object.
Transformation: rock to hut.
Transformation: stone to mountain.
Transformation: stone to salt.
Transformation: stone into jewel.
Transformation: rock to glass.
Transformation: stones to peas.
Christ asks woman what she is cooking; she replies that she is boiling stones to make her children think they are peas and that they will
have food.
Transformation: stone to firebrand.
Transformation: stone to island.
Transformation: stone to pillow.
Transformation: rock to water.
Transformation: stones to weapons.
Transformation: stones to dust.
Transformation: shell to another object.
Transformation: shell to boat.
Transformation: sand to another object.
Transformation: sand to rice.
Transformation: earth (dirt) to another object.
Transformation: dirt to pepper.
Transformation of manufactured object.
Transformation: box to another object.
Transformation: box to carriage.
Transformation: box to ship.
Transformation: bread to another object.
Transformation: bread to flower.
Bread tree springs from crumb of bread.
Transformation: clothing to other object.
Transformation: one article of clothing to another.
White chasuble suddenly turned into red.
Transformation: handkerchief to other object.
Transformation: handkerchief with three knots to clod, potsherd, and charcoal.
Transformation: handkerchief with three knots to golden leopard, golden snake, and golden monkey.
Transformation: belt to bridge.
Transformation: cloak to other object.
Transformation: cloak to mountain.
Transformation: cloak to vessel.
Transformation: needle to other object.
Transformation: thread to other object.
Transformation: milk sack to other object.
Transformation: milk sack to sheet of water.
Transformation: pot to other object.
Transformation: bowl to other object.
Transformation: brush to mountain.
Transformation: comb to mountain.
Transformation: ornament to other object.
Transformation: necklace to other object.
Transformation: ring to other object.
Transformation: ring to saber.
Transformation: weapon to other object.
Transformation: spear to other object.
Transformation: spear becomes mighty tree when driven into ground.
Transformation: sling-stick to boat.
Transformation: ship to other object.
Transformation: ship to mountains.
Transformation: canoe into rock.
Transformation: writing tablets to bundle.
Transformation: mirror to glass mountain.
Transformation: pieces of chalk into tins of oil.
Transformation: ink to beams of light.
Transformation: statue to drinking vessels.
Transformation: instruments of torture to lotus flowers.
Transformed parts of person or animal to object.
Transformation: blood to another object.
Transformation: blood to rubies.
Transformation: blood to milk.
Transformation: drops of blood to flowers.
Transformation: milk to blood.
Transformation: calf's head to death's head.
Transformation: hair to other object.
Transformation: hair to stream.
Transformation: hair to forest.
Transformation: hair to bridge.
Transformation: meat to other object.
Transformation: stolen meat to roses.
Meat received from spirits transformed to banana leaves.
Transformation: scurf from body to palm tree.
Transformation: feather to tree.
Transformation: tooth to ax head.
Transformation: finger to ax handle.
Transformation: cut-off hand to plant.
Transformation: moustache into grass.
Transformation: eye to another object.
Transformation: bull's eye to hornets.
Transformation: eyeballs to torches.
Transformation: bone to other object.
Transformation: bone-dust becomes blazing fire.
Transformation: bone to skeleton.
Transformation: animal dung to other object.
Transformation: tongue to other object.
Transformation: ogress's tongue to surfboard.
Transformation: tongue to flame.
Transformation: animal heart to other object.
Transformation: fox's heart to rattle.
Transformation: saint's relics to other object.
Saint's relics assume form of Buddha.
Transformation: flesh to other object.
Transformation: flesh to fire.
Transformation: tears to other object.
Transformation: tears to fountain.
Transformation: tears to river.
Transformation: ear tips (animal) into pelts.
Transformation: miscellaneous object to other objects.
Transformation: egg to mist.
Transformation: egg to house.
Transformation: smoke to bridge.
Transformation: chain of arrows to bridge.
Transformation: sea-scum to ice.
Transformation: furnace of fire to garden.
Transformation: object to stone.
Transformation: bread to stone.
Transformation: house to stone.
Transformation: house-door to stone.
Transformation: ship to stone.
Transformation: cheese to stone.
Transformation: milk to stone.
Transformation: salt to stone.
Transformation: tree to stone.
Transformation: poison to stone.
Animals turned into stones.
Stolen chickens turned to stones in cooking.
A candle becomes stone.
Water becomes rocks.
Transformation: object to muck.
Transformation: food to muck.
Transformation: object to wood.
Transformation: sword to wood.
Transformation: object becomes bloody.
Transformation: key becomes bloody.
Transformation: water becomes bloody.
Transformation: cake becomes bloody.
Egg becomes bloody.
Transformation: butter (milk) to blood.
Tears change to blood.
Spittle changes to blood.
Fruit juice turns to blood.
Eyes of stone lion become bloody.
Transformation: object to treasure (or vice versa).
Transformation: objects to gold.
Transformation: coals to gold.
Transformation: ashes to gold.
Transformation: shavings to gold.
Transformation: dead leaves to gold.
Banyan leaves turn to gold.
Transformation: spittle to gold.
Transformation: fire to gold.
Transformation: rice to gold.
Transformation: grain to gold.
Transformation: brick (tile) to gold.
Transformation: earth to gold.
Transformation: copper to gold.
Transformation: hair to gold.
Paste (smeared on princess's body) turns to gold.
Transformation: putrescence to gold.
Mucus turns to gold to reward piety.
Transformation: bottle to gold.
Transformation: palace to gold.
Transformation: food to gold.
Transformation: axe becomes golden.
Transformation: flowers to gold and silver.
Transformation: leaves on which meal is served turn to gold plates.
Transformation: straw to gold.
Transformation: fingernails to gold.
Transformation: object to money (or vice versa).
Transformation: stones to gold coins.
Transformation: water to money.
Transformation: money to ashes (leaves).
Transformation: money to pewter.
Transformation: objects to silver.
Transformation: earth to silver.
Tin changed into silver.
Transformation: stone to silver.
Transformation: iron in axe to silver.
Transformation: silver dish becomes wooden.
Transformation: object to jewels (or vice versa).
Transformation: stones into jewels.
Transformation: lice into gems.
Transformation: dishes to jewels.
Transformation: peas to pearls.
Tears become jewels.
Transformation: fingernails into jewels.
Transformation: hairs to jewels.
Water dripping off person becomes agates.
Oil changed to jewels.
A cup of marble changed into one of crystal.
Food transformed.
Inedible substance transformed into edible.
Bread made from mud.
Loaf of bread made from the leaf of a tree.
Wood turned into grain.
Lard made from tree bark.
Butter made from nettles.
Pancakes made of snow.
Rock changed into milk.
Stream changed to egg.
Transformation: ice becomes grease.
Bone-powder changed into cheese.
Transformation: sand to rice.
Edible substance changed to inedible.
Transformation: food to dust.
Cooked meat changed to raw.
Milk transformed into other substance.
Milk transformed into blood.
Milk transformed into lye.
Transformation: sugar to ashes.
Meat transformed.
Meat takes on taste of any dainty desired.
Bacon changed to iron.
Bacon changed to different foods.
Transformation: horse meat to mutton.
Meat miraculously turned into fish on a feast day, and vice versa.
Bread becomes cake.
Transformation: object becomes wine (or vice versa).
Wine miraculously changed into other object.
Wine becomes blood (Cf.
Wine becomes honey.
Spiced wine becomes bitter.
Transformation: water becomes wine.
Devil takes man waiting for water to turn to wine at midnight on Old Christmas Eve.
Woman loses eye when she goes to well at midnight on Old Christmas Eve when the water turns to wine.
Transformation: brine becomes wine.
Beer becomes wine.
Water changed to other substance (or vice versa).
Transformation: water to milk.
Transformation: water to ale.
Transformation: water to fire.
Transformation: water to marvelous drink.
Transformation: water to honey.
Transformation: water to mead.
Transformation: water changed into oil.
Water changed into balsam.
Water in river transformed to copper by magician.
Salty water turned into fresh liquid.
Transformation: water to butter and cream.
Transformation: water to rocks.
Transformation: water to brimstone.
Boiling pitch reduced to cold water.
Transformation: miscellaneous objects change material.
Transformation: bog to flowery mead (through power of saint).
Transformation: iron tools to earth.
Transformation: magic charm makes root bitter.
Transformation: goose egg becomes hen's egg.
Transformation: basket of things to iron.
Wax turned into earth.
Evil smells transformed into sweet fragrances, and vice versa.
Hut transformed into golden palace.
Things miraculously stretched or shortened if needed by a saint.
Stretching objects.
Transformation: stretching tree.
Stretching lily plant.
Magic stretching lance (Cf.
Transformation: stretching cliff.
Stretching sepulchre.
Grave equals five times length of any person's foot.
Tomb gate magically enlarged.
Sea formed from giant's spittle.
River expands and becomes sea.
Transformation: stretching fingers to make ladder.
Person becomes larger.
Demon becomes larger.
Animal becomes larger.
Snake grows to 300 leagues length.
Monkey becomes 100,000 feet high.
Ox-demon becomes 10,000 feet long.
Houses magically made larger.
Objects made larger--miscellaneous.
Small leaves become larger.
Amulet enlarged to become cloak.
Compressible objects.
Compressible magic animals.
Herd of cattle put into magic cup.
Magic folding mule.
Magic dog shrinks in size.
Compressible magic objects.
Compressible magic box.
Compressible magic box containing many people and objects.
Compressible table.
Saint confined a large quantity of water in a small ditch.
Iceflake made small by magic.
Castle magically made smaller.
Twelve stones unite to make one.
Ship becomes small boat.
Color of object changed.
Cock's comb becomes white.
Blood turns black.
Color of hair suddenly changed.
Spirit changes to animal.
Transformation: person to monster.
Inability to transform self in presence of others.
Transformation by breaking name tabu.
Man calls wife "my swallow"; she becomes swallow.
Transformation by expressing astonishment at marvel.
Transformation when one expresses astonishment at smith drawing water in an egg-shell.
Transformation by violation of looking tabu.
Man looks at copulating snakes: transformed to woman.
Transformation by plucking flowers in enchanted garden.
Transformation through excessive grief.
Transformation because of disobedience.
Woman transformed for nourishing an animal.
Transformation through wish.
Transformation through thoughtless wish of parent.
Transformation through magic word (charm).
Transformation through song.
Transformation by playing musical instrument.
Transformation by playing flute.
Transformation through curse.
Despondent mother curses herself and children into trees.
Transformation through greeting: first creature to be greeted will be transformed.
Transformation by scolding.
Transformation through power of the word--miscellaneous.
Petrification when woman's voice is heard.
Transformation by putting on skin.
Transformation by putting on claw, feather, etc. of helpful animal.
Transformation to fish by catching in fish-trap.
Transformation to horse (ass.
Transformation to horse by being horse-shod.
Transformation by removing chains from neck.
Transformation to swans by taking chains off neck.
Transformation by changing clothes.
Transformation by donning hood.
Transformation by donning cloak.
Giantess's cloak makes man grow.
Transformation by putting on moustache.
Transformation by donning wig.
Transformation by eating.
Transformation by eating fruit.
Transformation by eating apple.
Transformation by eating apricot.
Transformation by eating pear.
Transformation by eating vegetable.
Transformation by eating cabbage.
Transformation by eating cicuta.
Transformation through eating magic seeds.
Transformation by eating flower.
Transformation by eating onions.
Transformation by eating garlic.
Transformation by eating manioc.
Transformation by eating flesh.
Transformation by eating bread.
Transformation by eating leaf from a tree.
Transformation by eating--miscellaneous.
Transformation by placing pill in mouth.
Transformation by eating rice mixed with perspiration.
Transformation by eating sticky rice.
Transformation by eating snake eggs.
Transformation by drinking.
Transformation by drinking from animal's track.
Transformation by drinking wine.
Transformation by jumping over.
Transformation by rolling.
Transformation by somersault.
Transformation by jumping three times.
Transformation by bathing.
Transformation by application of water.
Transformation by urine.
God's urine makes chilly fiery.
Human urine softens rock.
Transformation by encircling object thrice.
Transformation by smelling.
Self-transformation by smelling stick.
Transformation by smelling flower.
Transformation by smelling powders.
Transformation by smelling wine.
Transformation by touching.
Transformation by touching ground on return from fairyland.
Midas' golden touch.
Transformation by touching with rod.
Transformation by licking.
Transformation by seizing ears.
Transformation by twisting one's own ear.
Transformation by kiss.
Transformation by sexual intercourse.
Transformation by touching water.
Transformation at touch of magic dogskin.
Transformation by touching with flower.
Transformation by pinching flower (life token).
Bag of stones becomes auks on touching ground.
Transformation by scratching.
Transformation by striking.
Transformation by striking wolf-skin glove.
Transformation by striking with stone.
Transformation of horse by spurring.
Transformation by decapitation.
Transformation by sunlight.
Transformation by turning magic hood.
Transformation by throwing object or person.
Transformation by throwing rice on person.
Transformation by magic object.
Transformation by magic stick.
Transformation by ring.
Transformation by cloth.
Transformation by wand.
Transformation by means of magic stone.
Transformation by magic powder.
Transformation by celestial dew.
Transformation by spell (charm).
Transformation by written spell.
Petrification by magic written formula.
Transformation by crossing water.
Transformation by fumigations.
Transformation by throwing ashes.
Transformation by being burned.
Transformation by braiding hair.
Transformation by stepping in footprint.
Transformation by looking in a mirror.
Petrification by glance.
Damsel whose voice turns her suitors to stone.
Transformation by sticking magic pin into head.
Transformation by sticking nails into feet.
Transformation by magic needle.
Transformation by lousing.
Transformation by contemplation.
Transformation by binding with string around neck.
Transformation by tying charm around person's neck.
Transformation to fish by throwing into sea.
Transformation by baptism.
Transformation by blowing.
Transformation by immersing in magic well.
Transformation to likeness of another by sleeping with arms about him under the same mantle.
Change of sex by exchange with a yaksa (ogre).
Transformation by rubbing with ointment.
Transformation by application of blood.
Transformation by placing something on head.
Transformation by placing bewitched flower on head.
Transformation by various means--miscellaneous.
Offer to make pups born of woman in shape of hound human.
Goddess repeatedly transforms herself.
Protean beggar: Person assumes successive forms in order to beg.
Protean sale: man sells youth in successive transformations.
Illusory transformation of animals in order to sell and cheat.
Transformation combat.
Transformation contest between magicians.
Transformation contest between master and pupil.
Transformation combat between lover and maid.
Men transformed to animals fight.
Fairies (gods?) transformed to animals fight.
Transformation combat between saints.
Repeated transformations to deceive wives.
Daily transformation.
One shape by day; another by night.
Animal by day; man by night.
Man by day; animal by night.
Tree by day; man by night.
Bush by day; woman by night.
Flower by day; girl by night.
Ugly by day; fair by night.
Size of object transformed at night.
Magic dog shrinks at night.
Sheep by day; dog by night.
Young man issues from conch-shell every evening.
Weekly transformation.
Transformation to werwolf every Friday night.
Transformation every ten days.
Yearly transformation.
Storks become men in Egypt in the winter.
Fairies become birds every other year.
Yearly transformation to person of different sex.
Power of self-transformation received from wood spirit.
Power of self-transformation received from demon.
Power of self-transformation received from a god.
Power of self-transformation received from an angel.
Power of self-transformation received from fairy parent.
Deity has power of self-transformation.
Size changed at will.
Person changes size at will.
Person changes appearance at will.
Animal's size changed at will.
Dogs large or small at will.
Size of object changed at will.
Compressible canoe.
Compressible ship.
Compressible tent.
Sword large or small at will.
Compressible load.
Compressible hammer.
Cloth large or small at will.
Bed large or small at will.
Spear large or small at will.
Supernatural creatures change size at will.
Dwarfs change size at will.
Angels change size at will.
Demons change size at will.
Creature born from egg changes size at will.
Boat transforms self at will of master.
Island canoe.
Transformation to reach difficult place.
Lover as bird visits mistress.
Girl as bird visits lover.
Transformation to be able to woo maiden.
Transformation to gain access to enemy's camp (fortress).
Transformation to spy out enemy's camp.
Transformation in order to enter rival's stomach.
Transformation to travel to otherworld.
Transformation to escape difficult situation.
Transformation to escape from captivity.
Transformation to escape death.
Transformation to escape lover.
Pursued sweetheart becomes tree.
Transformation to escape ambush.
Transformation to escape notice.
Transformation to hide from ogress.
Transformation to escape ogress.
Transformation to elude pursuers.
Transformation so as to rescue.
Transformation to falcon in order to rescue condemned man at the gallows.
Man transformed to deer decoy for people at execution of saint's friend.
Transformation to travel fast.
Transformation to test heroes.
Transformation to be picked up (caught).
Transformation to fish to be caught.
Transformation to child or pet to be adopted.
Transformation to seek lost (or unknown) person.
Faithful brother transforms self to deer to seek sister.
Transformation to eagle so as to scour country for lovely woman as bride for king.
Transformation to defeat enemies.
Transformation to kill enemy.
Transformation of magic object to animal which kills enemy.
Demons assume human form to revenge brother's death.
Queen transforms herself to defeat god of death.
Transformation to frighten enemy.
Transformation to destroy enemy's property.
Transformation to ant in order to gnaw bow-strings of enemy.
Transformation to spy enemy's camp.
Transformation so as to protect hero from enemy.
Transformation to receive food.
Transformation to buffalo so as to eat grass.
Witch transforms self to animal (hare, pig) so as to suck cows.
Transformation to steal.
Transformation to be put in food-bag.
Transformation to flying horse so as to abduct king.
Transformation in order to steal fire.
Transformation to seduce.
Transformation to animal to seduce woman.
Transformation to husband's (lover's) form to seduce woman.
Transformation of sex to seduce.
Transformation to seduce man.
Transformation of animal to woman to seduce man.
God as mare seduces stallion.
Seven girls in guise of seven parrots come to boy who has spurned them.
Miscellaneous reasons for voluntary transformation.
Transformation to snakes at night in order to sleep.
Transformation to animals to fight.
Transformation to show displeasure.
Transformation to act as helpful animal.
Transformation to lion in order to guard palace.
Sea dragon in serpent's form to accompany hero.
Transformation to eagle to carry hero to safety.
Transformation to eagle in order to guard princess.
Transformation to obtain blessing.
Transformation to friar to instruct mankind.
Transformation: wife to mistress.
Transformation to test fidelity.
Transformation to another form to persuade man to go to battle.
Transformation to lure hunters to certain place.
Transformation to recover stolen goods.
Transformation to tramp to escape recognition.
Transformation in order to drive buffaloes to milking.
Transformation: woman to fly so as to help hero pick out weapons from among many.
Transformation as punishment.
Transformation as revenge for repulsing amorous advances.
Transformation as punishment for denouncing saint.
Transformation for violation of vow.
Transformation to cure inconstant husband.
Transformation as reward.
Transformation of woman by goddess to preserve chastity.
Transformation of enemy to be rid of him.
Transformation of rival in love (marriage) to be rid of him.
Transformation of stepchild to be rid of him.
Jealous co-wife transforms the other.
Transformation to save a person.
King of birds transforms his quails into sticks and pebbles so king and his hunters and hawks cannot kill them.
Transformation flight.
Fugitive transforms self to stone.
Fugitive transformed by helper to escape detection.
Reversed transformation flight.
Obstacle flight.
Magic objects as decoy for pursuer.
Reversed obstacle flight.
Magic flight with the help of a he-goat.
Sea turns to ice to permit flight.
Gradual transformation.
Partial transformation.
Partial transformation: person with animal head.
Partial transformation: person with animal hair.
Partial transformation: animal with human mind.
Animals in human form retain animal food and habits.
Animal with human eyes.
Partial transformation--color changed.
Magic mantle changes color hourly.
"Spirit of poetry" as hideous youth becomes beautiful.
Transformation by magician.
Transformers.
Transformation by witch (sorceress).
Transformation by troll.
Transformation by saint.
Transformation by god (goddess).
Transformation by evil spirits.
Transformation by fairy.
Transformation by offspring of fairy and mortal.
Transformation by angel (God).
Transformation by druid.
Transformation by helpful animals.
Transformation by magic animal.
Transformed animal refuses to touch meat of that animal.
Person transformed to animal refuses human food.
Transformed mother suckles child.
Transformed cow advises daughter.
Daily beating of men transformed to dogs.
City's inhabitants transformed to fish.
Man transformed to ass plays the lyre.
Food left for transformed person.
Man transformed to woman has children.
Transformation during sleep.
Magic object can transform self.
Magic loin cloth can transform itself into anything.
Gods have power to transform themselves.
Additional transformation motifs.
Eyes of hero's buffalo friend turn into two powerful dogs that protect his wife.
Gradual disenchantment.
Partial disenchantment.
Disenchantment with missing member.
Cat's paw cut off: woman's hand missing.
Hog's forefoot cut off: woman's hand missing.
Person restored to human form retains certain animal features.
Place disenchanted.
Castle disenchanted.
Disenchantment by decapitation.
Disenchantment by decapitation and replacement of head.
Head transferred from one man to another; second man's head in first man's hand.
Disenchantment by cutting person in two.
Disenchantment from bird by cutting off bill.
Disenchantment from flower by breaking stalk.
Disenchantment from flower by plucking it.
Disenchantment from leaf by breaking it from tree.
Disenchantment from fruit by plucking it from tree.
Disenchantment by violence.
Disenchantment by cutting off and reversing bodily members.
Disenchantment by cutting off animal's limb.
Disenchantment by cutting in two.
Disenchantment by slinging against something.
Disenchantment by throwing into fire.
Disenchantment by striking.
Disenchantment by striking with a missile.
Disenchantment by throwing a stone.
Disenchantment by throwing a flower.
Disenchantment by drawing blood.
Disenchantment by drinking blood.
Disenchantment by beating.
Disenchantment by wounding.
Disenchantment by shooting.
Disenchantment by ripping armor.
Disenchantment by killing.
Lizard in human form killed; corpse is lizard.
Disenchantment by driving stake through body.
Disenchantment by throwing objects at transformed person.
Disenchantment by rubbing.
Disenchantment by overcoming enchanted person in fight (contest).
Disenchantment by assembling bones.
Disenchantment by laying collected bones in a seven-fold cloth and spreading another above it.
Disenchantment by shaving.
Disenchantment by rough treatment--miscellaneous.
Disenchantment by burying victim and sowing grain over him.
Disenchantment through burial and revival.
Girl destroys crab shape of husband and disenchants him permanently.
Disenchantment by removing skin (or covering).
Disenchantment by flaying.
Disenchantment by hiding skin (covering).
Disenchantment by destroying skin (covering).
Disenchantment by holding temporarily disenchanted person.
Disenchantment from fruit (flower) by opening it.
Disenchantment by taking off bridle.
Disenchantment by putting on (removing) chain from neck.
Disenchantment by putting chain around neck.
Disenchantment by removing chain from neck.
Disenchantment by removing string from neck.
Disenchantment by obedience and kindness.
Loathly Lady.
Disenchantment of girl by carrying her on back.
Loathly bridegroom.
Hairy anchorite.
Swine bridegroom.
Loathly husband a god in disguise.
Disenchantment of animal by admission to woman's bed.
Disenchantment by kiss.
Beauty and the beast.
Three redeeming kisses.
Disenchantment from tree form by embrace of lover.
Disenchantment by enduring animal's embrace.
Girl disenchants animal husband by enduring his embraces without fear.
Son disenchants animal father by enduring his caresses without fear.
Disenchantment of monster when prince promises to marry the monster's mother.
Disenchantment of monster when his mother acknowledges him as son.
Disenchantment of monster child when baptized.
Disenchantment by promise to marry.
Disenchantment by sexual intercourse.
Disenchantment by feeding enchanted animals.
Disenchantment by accomplishment of tasks.
Disenchantment by sewing shirts for enchanted brothers.
Disenchantment of another by weeping jug of tears.
Disenchantment by obeying directions received in a dream.
Disenchantment by climbing glass mountain.
Disenchantment by serving transformed person.
Disenchantment of long absent spouse by faithfulness of partner.
Disenchantment by holding enchanted person during successive transformations.
Disenchantment by maintaining silence.
Disenchantment by three nights' silence under punishment.
Disenchantment by maintaining silence for a year or more.
Disenchantment by faithfulness of others--miscellaneous.
Disenchantment by taking key from serpent's mouth at midnight.
Disenchantment from bird when queen milks own milk into bird's beak.
Disenchantment by naked virgin undergoing frightful journey at midnight.
Disenchantment if twelve men will not leave castle for a year.
Disenchantment by following enchanted woman through lake to underwater castle.
Disenchantment by maidens walking with lighted candles in procession.
Disenchantment by maiden sitting at head of enchanted king's bed on morning of St. John's day.
Snake disenchanted by being allowed to wrap itself three times around person's neck.
Failure to disenchant by not watching sleeping princess long enough.
Three soldiers in the enchanted manor.
Disenchantment by proper person waking from magic sleep.
Disenchantment by causing enchanted person to speak.
Disenchantment by being wakened from magic sleep by proper agent.
Disenchantment by destroying enchanter.
Disenchantment by eating enchanter's heart.
Disenchantment by defeating enchanter in single combat.
Disenchantment by eating or drinking.
Disenchantment by drinking milk of queen who has borne two boys.
Disenchantment by biting certain twig.
Disenchantment by eating certain salmon.
Disenchantment by eating apple.
Disenchantment by eating whale meat.
Disenchantment by eating certain plant.
Disenchantment by refusing to eat for three days.
Disenchantment by eating head of serpent.
Disenchantment by reversing (undoing) enchantment.
Disenchantment by removing cause of enchantment.
Disenchantment by removal of enchanting pill from mouth.
Disenchantment by removing ring from under dead girl's tongue.
Disenchantment by removal of enchanting pin (thorn).
Disenchantment by untying enchanting knot.
Disenchantment by liquid.
Disenchantment by bathing (immersing) in water.
Disenchantment by water and command.
Disenchantment by touching water.
Disenchantment by pouring water into ear.
Disenchantment by application of blood.
Disenchantment by rubbing with pig's blood.
Disenchantment by tears.
Disenchantment by bathing in milk.
Disenchantment by use of magic object.
Disenchantment by burning magic hair.
Disenchantment by rubbing with magic grease.
Disenchantment by using powder.
Disenchantment by using wand.
Disenchantment by drinking from golden vessel.
Disenchantment by medicine.
Disenchantment by rosary or scapular.
Disenchantment and transformation by means of a magic sword.
Disenchantment by sprinkling consecrated rice.
Disenchantment by ring.
Disenchantment by flower.
Disenchantment by use of crystal ball.
Disenchantment by naming.
Disenchantment by recognition.
Disenchantment by feeding transformed creature.
Disenchantment by placing handkerchief between horns.
Disenchantment by covering with cloth.
Disenchantment by blowing on victim.
Disenchantment from berry by blowing on it.
Disenchantment by blowing medicine on victim.
Disenchantment by prayer (mass) of Pope.
Disenchantment by blessing.
Disenchantment by physical contact.
Disenchantment by touch of holy man.
Disenchantment by touching earth.
Disenchantment by being found when lost.
Disenchantment by lighting fire.
Disenchantment by magic contest.
Disenchantment produced by hero winning series of contests with seven demons.
Disenchantment by music.
Disenchantment by song.
Disenchantment by encircling.
Disenchantment by sign of cross.
Other means of disenchantment.
Disenchantment by covering with deliverer's clothing.
Disenchantment by breaking lamp.
Disenchantment by sight of old home.
Frog-woman disenchanted by sight of water.
Disenchantment by breaking tabu.
Disenchantment by throwing golden objects into water.
Disenchantment by repeating magic formula.
Disenchantment by speaking proper words.
Disenchantment by shaking certain tree.
Disenchantment of enchanted (sunken) castle (town, inhabitants) by digging it out.
Girl disenchants her tiger-husband by putting a garland around his neck, sprinkling sand and water over him.
Disenchantment by ringing bell.
Disenchantment possible under unique conditions.
Disenchantment at end of specified time.
Disenchantment at end of seven years.
Disenchantment when superhuman task is finished.
The deliverer in the cradle.
Disenchantment at end of two hundred years.
Disenchantment at end of nine hundred years.
Disenchantment possible at the end of seven hundred years.
Disenchantment at cock crow.
Disenchantment at midnight after owl hoots three times.
Disenchantment by only one person.
Disenchantment of girl only by lover.
Disenchantment can be done by wife.
Disenchantment promised if girl may marry transformed man.
Disenchantment fails because conditions are not fulfilled.
Disenchantment by finding key to enchanted castle.
Transformed mother called by her child.
Disenchantment made permanent.
Disenchantment made permanent by holding to a hair.
Disenchantment made permanent by burning cast-off skin.
Enchanted person attracts attention of rescuer.
Enchanted person attracts attention by dancing.
Maiden disenchanted, deserted, and refound.
Divine beings assume their own shape in sleep.
Disenchantment as proof of truth.
Disenchantment by passing between human being's legs.
Disenchantment by other means.
Children disenchanted after long period are aged.
Valley disenchanted rises to level of surroundings.
Attendants of disenchanted person automatically disenchanted.
Ownership of magic object.
Magic objects possessed by witch, sorcerer or evil dwarf.
Magic objects created by deity.
Magic objects created by God on sixth day.
Ineffable name written on object renders it magic.
Magic object to be used only in extreme need.
Magic object effective only when exact instructions for its use are followed.
Magic object effective when struck on ground once only.
Magic charm (formula) used injudiciously brings death to owner's wife, children, himself.
Magic object received from God (a god).
Magic object received from goddess.
Magic object falls down from the heaven.
Magic needle and thread fall from heaven as result of prayer.
Magic object received from supernatural being.
Magic object received from saint.
Magic object received from demigod.
Magic object received from devil.
Magic object received from ghost.
Magic object received from the dead in lower world.
Magic object acquired as reward for burial of the dead.
Magic object received from genie.
Helpful genie.
Magic object received from temple demons.
Magic object received from witch or wizard.
Witch as helper.
Magic object received from dragon king.
Magic object received from lady in dream.
Magic object received from maiden.
Magic object received from giantess in dream.
Magic object received from man in dream.
Magic object received from wild man.
Magic object received from angel.
Angel reveals location of magic object.
Magic object received from giant.
Magic object received from dwarf.
Magic sword received from dwarf in dream.
Magic objects gifts of magician.
Magic object received from ascetic.
Magic object received from maiden-spirit.
Magic object received from fairy.
Magic object received from river-nymph.
Magic sword received from Lady of Lake.
Magic cauldron received from lake spirit.
Magic object received from grateful fairy.
Magic object received from maiden in otherworld island.
Magic objects received from sun, moon, and stars, etc.
Magic object received from wind.
Magic object received from relative.
Magic object received from mother.
Magic object received from father.
Magic object received from godmother.
Magic object received from sister.
Magic object received from father-in-law.
Magic object received from daughter.
Magic object received from foster-parents.
Magic object received from girl's foster-mother.
Magic object received from wife.
Magic object inherited.
Magic object received from grateful person.
Magic object received from man in return for rescue of child.
Magic object received from dwarf in return for rescue of child or kindness to child.
Magic object received from grateful father of redeemed snake.
Magic object received in return for being shaved.
Magic object received from astrologer.
Magic object received from magician.
Magic object received from old woman.
Magic object received from old man.
Magic object received from huntsman.
Magic object received from green-clad huntsman.
Magic object received from maiden.
Magic object received from cat-woman; i.e. woman transformed intermittently to cat.
Magic object received from monster.
Magic object vomited by conquered monster.
Magic object received through particular intermediaries.
Magic object received from child.
Acquisition of magic object--miscellaneous.
Magic object received by apprentice from master.
Attempt to learn about magic object by spying.
Magic object acquired by trick exchange.
Magic objects acquired by acting as umpire for fighting heirs.
Magic object acquired by tricking giant.
Magic object acquired by tricking devil.
Magic object acquired through trickery: child forced to cry till object is given.
Magic object acquired by exchanging letters.
Magic object acquired through foolish bargain.
Magic object acquired by stealing.
Stolen objects powerful in magic.
Magic object taken from ogre's house.
Magic object stolen in Thor's temple.
Magic object taken in the serpents' country.
Magic object taken from barrow.
Magic object stolen from giant.
Magic armor stolen from dwarf by giant.
Magic helmet taken directly from bystander.
Boy overhears witches' conversation about magic objects, which he gets possession of.
Prince procures magic object from bathing fairy when he steals her clothes.
Man poisons couple, owners of magic gong, and gains possession of it.
Magic object taken from dead enemy.
Magic object stolen at night.
Magic object acquired by trickery--miscellaneous.
Magic root acquired by tricking mother bird into searching for it in order to disentangle her young.
Fairy dun acquired by tricking owner.
Magic object accidentally found.
Magic object found on grave.
Magic object found on mother's grave.
Magic object found on father's grave.
Magic object found on grave of slain helpful animal.
Magic object found in underground room.
Magic object found in giant's cave.
Magic object found in magic castle.
Golden cot found in magic castle.
Magic object found in chimney.
Magic object dug from ground.
Magic object found--miscellaneous.
Magic object found in fort.
Magic object pointed out by bird.
Magic object found on an island.
Magic object found in a wood.
Magic object found in garden.
Magic object found in fish.
Magic object found in heart of whale.
Magic object found under dead girl's tongue.
Magic object pointed out by divine voice.
Magic object found on ground.
Magic object acquired by exchange.
Magic object purchased.
Magic object acquired by wishing.
Magic object forged by smith to order.
Magic horse (wooden) made by carpenter.
Magic object acquired as reward.
Magic object acquired as reward for vigil.
Magic object acquired as reward for religious austerities.
Magic object acquired as reward for quest into grave.
Magic object as reward for faith.
Magic object as reward for good deeds.
Magic object acquired by gaining love of owner.
Magic object born with hero.
Magic object acquired by singing.
Magic object obtained--miscellaneous means.
Magic object acquired by rapping on tree.
Quest to hell for magic object.
Magic object received from other world.
Magic object obtained by reaching in certain cardinal direction.
Magic object eaten unwittingly.
Magic bird-heart eaten unwittingly.
Magic bird-liver eaten unwittingly.
Magic object to be chosen from among identical worthless objects.
Magic object obtained as compensation for loss of entire herd--the spirit of the herd resides in the last goat's tail, which old woman
keeps.
Magic object left by frightened demons.
Magic object as ransom of captive.
Death to follow loss of magic object.
Loss of magic object causes madness.
Magic object stolen.
Magic object stolen from local deity.
Magic object stolen by host (at inn.) Magic object stolen by neighbor.
Magic object stolen by brothers.
Magic object stolen by rival for wife.
Magic object stolen by rival's emissary.
Magic object stolen by hero's wife.
Magic object stolen by owner' s fiancйe.
Magic object stolen in card game.
Magic object carried off by bird.
Magic horn carried off by bird.
Magic object stolen by relatives.
Magic objects stolen from owner by his daughter, with whom he spends the night.
Magic object stolen by giants.
Magic object carried away; child allowed to play with it.
Magic object taken away by force.
Magic object mysteriously disappears.
Magic jewel carried off by bird.
Magic ring carried off by bird.
Magic object destroyed.
Woman cooks the magic fruits.
Magic object destroyed because of feigned sickness.
Magic object mysteriously disappears.
Magic object disappears at owner's death.
Magic object returns to original place.
Magic mango returns to tree for broken tabu.
Magic object traded away.
Magic object exchanged for worthless.
Exchange of common cow for gold-dropping cow made by daughter when her father stops at her home for the night.
Magic treasure animal killed.
Magic object loses power by overuse.
Magic wishing-ring loses power by touching water.
Extraordinary flower preserves its freshness so long as it remains unperceived by anyone other than owner.
Magic object voluntarily restored to giver.
Magic sword returned to lake whence it was received.
Magic sword thrown into lake by dying hero.
Recovery of magic object cures madness.
Magic object recovered by using second magic object.
Recovery of magic object by use of magic apples.
Recovery of magic object by use of magic cudgel.
Magic object stolen back.
Stolen magic object stolen back by helpful animals.
Stolen magic object stolen back by helpful cat and dog.
Magic object recovered with lioness's help.
Recovered magic articles dropped by rescuing animals into the sea.
Magic object stolen back by servant.
Stolen magic object stolen back by man in disguise.
Magic (marvelous object) given back to placate crying child.
Thief forced to vomit up stolen magic object.
Magic object recovered with devil's help.
Magic object recovered with witch's help.
Magic object recovered through recitation of magic formula.
Magic object returned in payment for removal of magic horns.
Prognostications from weather phenomena.
Magic cloud.
Magic rain.
Magic mist.
Druidic mist.
Magic dew.
Magic hail.
Magic snow.
Magic ice.
Magic storm.
Magic wind.
Magic darkness.
Magic sea.
Magic wave.
Magic virtue of nine waves.
Magic river.
River produced by magic.
River contained under cock's wings.
River contained in bird's ears.
River contained in box.
Intermittent river.
Sabbatical river.
River issuing from cave controlled by race of Amazons.
Magic flood.
Magic lake (pond).
Lake (pond) produced by magic.
Lake produced by belches after magic draught.
Lake under which supernatural smith lives.
Lake of milk created through merit of saint.
Magic tank.
Magic fountain.
Magic oil-spouting fountain.
Miraculous well yielding milk, beer or wine.
Fountain magically made.
Fountain bursts forth where water is not available for baptismal ceremonies of future saint.
Saint produces fountain by means of his tears.
Fountain gushes up at place where saint's head was cut off.
Samson makes sweet water flow from jawbone.
Fountain is inhabited by sacred oracular fish.
Magic well.
Well produced by magic.
Well produced by saint invoking heaven.
Magic spring.
Spring made by magic.
Saint causes water to issue from cut in a tree.
Magic spring guarded by demons (monsters).
Magic spring guarded by druids.
Spring augments milk of nursing mothers who drink its water.
Spring follows saint to his country.
Spring runs dry (as result of fratricide).
Magic water-hole.
Water-hole made by magic.
Magic rock (stone).
Stone produced by magic.
Stones fixed in the earth have certain magic powers.
Location of magic stone determines race of king of country.
Stone on which saint is baptized (is born) has magic powers.
Magic stone as amulet.
Magic coal.
Magic soot.
Magic ashes.
Magic lampblack.
Magic lime.
Magic pebble.
Magic mountain.
Mountain created by magic.
Magic cliff.
Magic hill.
Magic sink-hole.
Magic turf.
Magic sod.
Magic earth (soil).
Magic earth from crossroads.
Magic sand.
Magic clay.
Magic dust.
Magic brick.
Magic island.
Island made by magic.
Magic plain.
Magic forest.
Forest produced by magic.
Magic hedge.
Magic tree guarded by serpent (dragon) coiled around its roots.
Magic tree guarded by giant ogre.
Magic tree at bottom of lake.
Magic hazel tree.
Magic oak tree.
Magic peach tree.
Magic cherry tree.
Magic pear tree.
Magic ash tree (quicken, rowan).
Magic lime tree.
Magic fig tree.
Magic olive tree.
Magic apple tree.
Magic alder tree.
Magic birch tree.
Magic hawthorn.
Magic yew tree.
Magic yew tree created by fairies.
Magic bamboo tree.
Magic nut tree.
Magic laurel tree.
Magic cedar tree.
Magic palm tree.
Tree produced by magic.
Magic tree springs from fairyland berry.
Magic tree-bark.
Magic twig.
Origin of magic twig.
Magic twigs grow from buried magic vessel.
Magic birch twig.
Magic bough.
Magic leaf.
Magic stick of wood.
Magic faggot.
Magic thorn.
Magic garden.
Garden produced by magic.
Magic vineyard.
Magic bush.
Magic plant.
Honeysuckle "king of trees." Magic mandrake.
Magic calabash (gourd).
Magic rosebush.
Magic mistletoe.
Mistletoe used by druids.
Moly: magic plant.
Magic lotus plant.
Magic four-leaf clover.
Magic corn.
Magic rice (plant.).
Magic laurel (plant).
Magic myrtle.
Magic plantain.
Magic grass.
Magic flax.
Magic fern blossom.
Magic barley plant.
Magic rue.
Magic tobacco plant.
Magic weeds.
Magic myrtle.
Magic roots.
Magic seed.
Magic mustard-seed.
Magic hemp-seed.
Magic fern-seed.
Magic black cummin.
Magic grains.
Magic rice-grains.
Rice-grains magically produced by gourd.
Magic barley.
Magic plant-sap.
Magic flower.
Magic lotus-flower.
Magic rose.
Magic thorn.
Magic stalk.
Magic herbs.
Magic fruit.
Magic fruit juice.
Magic apple.
Magic apple from Garden of the Hesperides.
Magic peach.
Magic orange.
Magic cherry.
Magic fig.
Magic pear.
Magic plum.
Magic grape.
Magic date (fruit).
Magic berry.
Magic cranberry.
Magic pumpkin.
Magic pomegranate.
Magic bananas.
Magic vegetable.
Magic bean.
Magic yam.
Magic leek.
Magic garlic.
Magic egg-plant.
Magic nut.
Magic coconut-shell.
Magic chestnut.
Magic hazel-nut.
Magic acorn.
Magic betel-nut.
Magic hair.
Magic beard.
Magic pubic hair.
Magic ball of hair.
Magic head.
Magic horns (grow on person's forehead).
Magic lips.
Magic face.
Magic skull.
Magic tongue.
Magic eye.
Magic foot.
Magic toe.
Magic hand.
Magic right hand.
Magic power of right hand for good.
Magic left hand.
Magic power of left hand for evil.
Magic finger.
Magic internal organs--human.
Magic heart--human.
Magic heart of unborn child.
Magic brain.
Magic liver.
Magic private parts--human.
Magic spittle.
Magic excrements.
Magic urine.
Magic blood--human.
Magic menstrual blood.
Magic blood of circumcision.
Magic blood of unborn child.
Magic tears.
Magic breath.
Magic buttocks.
Magic bone (human).
Magic human flesh.
Magic bodily members (human)--miscellaneous.
Magic scab (from skin).
Magic tooth.
Magic dead man's tooth.
Magic breasts of woman.
Magic animal head.
Magic bird head.
Magic ass's head.
Magic serpent head.
Magic animal horn.
Magic ear of animal.
Magic animal's crown.
Magic serpent's crown.
Magic tooth of animal.
Magic lips of animal.
Magic tongue of animal.
Magic brain of animal.
Magic limbs of animal.
Magic legs of animal.
Magic legs of bull.
Magic bone of animal.
Magic chicken-thigh.
Magic internal organs of animal.
Magic heart of animal.
Magic bird heart.
Magic dragon heart.
Magic serpent heart.
Magic wolf heart.
Magic fox heart.
Magic gall-bladder of animal.
Magic entrails of animal.
Magic entrails of bird.
Magic entrails of goat.
Magic liver of animal.
Magic bird liver.
Magic stomach of animal.
Magic stomach of hare.
Magic blood of animal.
Magic flesh of animal.
Magic fat of animal.
Magic fat of crow.
Magic milk of animal.
Magic feather.
Magic bird's power in one feather.
Magic wings.
Wings grown by magic.
Magic hair of animal.
Magic hair of bear.
Magic hair of fox.
Magic hair of lion's tail.
Magic hair of ant's beard.
Magic egg.
Magic skin of animal.
Magic pigskin.
Magic fishskin.
Magic mouseskin.
Magic skin of swallow.
Magic cowhide.
Magic dogskin.
Magic horseskin.
Magic sheepskin.
Magic sealskin.
Magic dung of animal.
Magic bird dung.
Magic cow-dung.
Magic urine of animal.
Magic urine of serpent.
Magic shell of animal.
Magic conch shell.
Magic tortoise shell.
Other bodily members of animals--magic.
Other bodily members of bird--magic.
Magic breath of animal.
Magic tail of animal.
Magic yak tail.
Magic goat tail.
Magic snake tail.
Magic animal feet.
Magic sex organs of animal.
Magic spittle of animal.
Magic shell of animal.
Food supplied by magic.
Food supplied by means of prayer.
Magic banquet.
Magic food from herbs.
Magic pastry (bread, cake, etc.).
Manna.
Magic bread.
Consecrated bread as magic object.
Magic cake.
Cake made by rubbing flour on griddle.
Magic cake of figs.
Magic meat.
Magic meal of fishes.
Flesh of cat when chewed has magic results.
Flesh of dog when chewed has magic results.
Flesh of pig when chewed has magic results.
Magic cereal (food).
Cereal from man's body.
Magic rice.
Magic wheat.
Magic vegetable (as food).
Magic nuts (as food).
Magic chestnut (as food).
Magic coconut (as food).
Magic dairy products.
Magic cheese.
Magic honey.
Magic sweets.
Magic food--miscellaneous.
Magic vermicelli.
Magic salt.
Drink supplied by magic.
Blood as magic drink.
Milk as magic drink.
Magic beer.
Beer brewed by means of magic song.
Magic ale.
Magic wine.
Consecrated wine as magic object.
Clothes produced by magic.
Magic cloth.
Magic garment (robe, tunic).
Magic uniform.
Magic mantle (cloak).
Magic trousers (breeches).
Magic shirt.
Magic belt.
Magic girdle.
Magic underclothing.
Magic shift.
Magic veil.
Magic stockings.
Magic garter.
Magic pocket.
Magic footwear.
Magic boots.
Boots produced by magic.
Magic shoes.
Magic snowshoes.
Magic moccasins.
Magic sandals.
Magic gaiters.
Magic slippers.
Magic glove.
Magic head-wear.
Magic hat.
Magic cap.
Magic hood.
Magic cowl.
Magic mask.
Magic collar.
Magic hunting collar.
Magic clothes--miscellaneous.
Magic handkerchief.
Magic feather dress.
Magic jewel (jewels).
Jewels produced by magic.
Magic beads.
Magic hair ornaments.
Magic comb.
Magic hairpin.
Magic brooch.
Magic necklace.
Magic bracelet.
Magic bangle.
Magic ring.
Magic fan.
Magic chain (ornament).
Magic blue ribbon.
Magic ornaments--miscellaneous.
Magic crown.
Magic diadem.
Magic ornamental breastplate.
Magic sword.
Sword of magic origin.
Magic saber.
Magic knife.
Magic poignard (dagger).
Magic spear.
Magic spear-head.
Magic javelin.
Magic lance.
Magic sling.
Magic bow.
Magic arrow.
Magic arrow makes five wounds.
Magic quiver.
Magic missile.
Boomerang effect of hurled missiles caused by a saint.
Arrows returned upon those who shoot saint.
Magic cudgel (club).
Magic hammer (Mjцlnir).
Magic firearms.
Magic gun.
Magic pistol.
Magic bullet.
Magic battle-axe.
Magic armor.
Magic shield.
Magic cuirass.
Magic breastplate.
Magic helmet.
Magic scabbard.
Magic yoke.
Magic trident.
Bundle of wood magically acts as riding-horse.
Magic carriage.
Carriage produced by magic.
Magic cart.
Magic wagon.
Magic chariot.
Magic sleigh.
Magic airships.
Magic air-riding basket.
Magic boat.
Boat made by magic.
Magic hollow-log boat.
Magic canoe.
Canoe made by magic.
Magic ship.
Magic oar.
Magic paddle.
Magic castle.
Castle produced by magic.
Magic palace.
Palace produced by magic.
Magic house.
House created by magic.
Magic house made by prayer.
Magic church (temple).
Church produced by magic.
Magic fort.
Fort produced by magic.
Magic tent.
Magic room.
Magic kitchen.
Magic stairs.
Magic windows.
Magic door (gate).
Magic doorstep.
Magic hearth.
Magic tomb.
Magic buildings and parts--miscellaneous.
Store, fully supplied, produced by magic.
Magic tower.
Magic house-pillars.
Magic seat.
Magic bench.
Magic chair.
Magic table.
Magic tablecloth.
Magic couch.
Magic bed.
Magic bed-legs.
Magic sofa.
Magic hammock.
Magic swing.
Magic palanquin.
Magic divan.
Magic pillow.
Magic carpet.
Magic throne.
Magic platform.
Magic key.
Magic stove.
Magic light.
Magic lamp.
Magic candle.
Hand-of-glory.
Magic mirror.
Magic lock.
Magic altar.
Magic quilt.
Magic vessel.
Magic pot.
Magic coffee-pot.
Magic cauldron.
Magic kettle.
Magic pitcher.
Magic can.
Magic cup.
Magic tankard.
Magic goblet (glass).
Magic drinking horn.
Magic chalice.
Magic vase: *Chauvin V 259 No.
Magic jar.
Magic bottle.
Magic cruet.
Magic barrel (cask).
Magic bucket.
Magic basket.
Magic basin.
Magic chamber-pot.
Magic tub.
Magic urn.
Magic dish.
Magic plate.
Magic bowl.
Magic carving knife.
Magic razor.
Magic box.
Magic box containing castle.
Magic match.
Magic tinder.
Magic fire-steel (flint, strike-a-light).
Magic key.
Magic spoon.
Magic needle.
Magic pin.
Magic scissors (shears).
Magic thread.
Magic ball of thread.
Magic string.
Magic shuttle.
Magic spindle.
Magic awl.
Magic auger.
Magic hone.
Magic purse.
Magic bag (sack).
Magic bag made from skin of crane (transformed woman).
Magic umbrella.
Magic soap.
Magic net.
Magic anvil.
Magic rope.
Magic hoe.
Magic shovel.
Magic spade.
Magic axe.
Magic sickle.
Magic wheel.
Destructive "rolling wheel" of druid.
Magic whip.
Miscellaneous utensils and implements.
Magic bridle.
Magic saddle.
Magic plow.
Magic hammer.
Magic fish-hook.
Magic thong.
Magic game board (chessboard).
Magic broom.
Magic drum.
Magic rattle.
Magic bell.
Magic gong.
Magic trumpet.
Magic horn (musical).
Magic clarinet.
Magic flute.
Magic pipe (musical).
Magic flageolet.
Magic whistle.
Magic mouth harp.
Magic harp.
Magic lyre.
Magic lute.
Magic violin (fiddle).
Magic musical bow.
Magic guitar.
Magic musical instruments--miscellaneous.
Magic medicine (= charm).
Magic fluid.
Magic water.
Baptismal water as magic object.
Holy water as magic object.
Magic potion.
Magic drops.
Magic oil.
Magic pill.
Magic salve (ointment).
Magic perfume.
Magic powder.
Human liver as medicine.
Magic chain (iron).
Iron chain made by magic.
Magic metal.
Magic steel.
Magic iron.
Magic nails.
Magic copper.
Magic gold.
Magic gold head.
Magic staff.
Magic wand.
Magic pair of sticks.
Magic rod.
Magic pestle.
Magic trident.
Magic tube.
Magic ball.
Magic fishhook.
Magic bridge.
Bridge made by magic.
Magic cigar.
Magic grinding-stone.
Magic millstone.
Magic mill.
Magic sphere.
Magic book.
Magic writings (gramerye, runes).
Magic ogam writing.
Magic picture.
Magic story.
Magic card.
Magic statue (doll).
Magic fire.
Magic circle.
Magic line.
Magic formula (charm).
Charm written in blood has magic power.
Magic spells mixed with Christian prayers.
Charm sung over flesh chewed by wizard has magic power.
Charm chanted standing on one foot with one eye shut, etc.
Charm containing name of God.
Magic numbers.
Three as magic number.
Three on a match (lighting cigarettes or cigars).
Breakage of glass or crockery occurs in threes.
Deaths in a community come in threes.
Three meditations on death which prevent laughter.
Four as magic number.
Five as magic number.
Seven as magic number.
Nine as magic number.
Ten as magic number.
Twelve as magic number.
Thirteen as magic number.
Magic numbers--miscellaneous.
101 as magic number.
9999 as magic number.
Magic secret.
Bible texts as magic spells.
Magic measurement (height of Christ).
Magic oath.
Magic alphabet.
Magic fetish.
Magic conjuring bag.
Magic song.
Magic music.
Magic melody.
Magic hymn.
Magic poem (satire).
Magic straw.
Magic bachall.
Magic crozier.
Ghoulish charm.
Magic churchyard mould.
Sorcerers use marrow of corpses' bones.
Magic dead fish.
Magic dead pig.
Magic coil.
Magic knot.
Druid's knot: magic defense.
Magic phylactery.
Magic wisp.
Magic packet.
Magic dice.
Magic spike.
Spike produced by magic.
Magic horseshoe.
Magic fly-whisk.
Magic coin.
Heavenly body as magic object.
Sun as magic object.
Magic sun-ray.
Star as magic object.
Sign in stars as portent.
Magic star later resolves into its elements.
Magic bird nest.
Magic color.
Red as magic color.
Green as magic color.
White as magic color.
Black as magic color.
Magic footprint.
Magic incense.
Sacred relic as magic object.
Magic dye.
Magic firewood.
Other magic objects.
Magic sign (symbol, insignia).
Magic sepulchre (grave).
Magic cross.
Magic cotton-wool.
Magic pair of spectacles.
Hat gives magic wisdom.
Cap gives magic wisdom.
Magic well of wisdom.
Streams of wisdom flow from magic well.
Stone gives magic wisdom.
Staff gives magic wisdom.
Charm gives magic wisdom.
Fox-heart gives magic wisdom.
Magic object teaches animal languages.
Magic turf from church-roof teaches animal languages.
Drinking blood teaches animal languages.
Marvelous ruby teaches bird's speech.
Bird's head (when eaten) teaches animal languages.
Magic object teaches magic.
Magic axe teaches magic.
Magic object gives power of prophecy.
Drop of water from Paradise gives power of prophecy.
Magic seat gives omniscience.
Drop from magic cauldron gives supernatural information.
Intelligent ship.
Magic object tells how another fares.
Magic ring tells how another fares.
Magic plant bears fruit to indicate that heroine is ready to marry.
Barley plant droops if prince is in trouble.
Magic staff gives supernatural information.
Magic charm gives knowledge.
Singing of wave gives supernatural information.
Speaking and walking divan brings supernatural information.
Magic water gives knowledge.
Magic fruit gives supernatural knowledge.
Magic apple gives supernatural knowledge.
Magic fig gives supernatural knowledge.
Magic grape gives supernatural knowledge.
Magic nut gives supernatural knowledge.
Magic object used for divination.
Harp struck for divination.
Mirror answers questions.
Oracular fountain.
Spring gives omens.
Divination by water.
Oracular tree.
Oracular twig.
Sight of magic twigs gives foreknowledge of day's events.
Falling of two trees reveals Savior's will as to separation of friends.
Tree appealed to as arbitrator.
Ash (quicken, rowan) used (by druids) for divinations.
Hazel used by druids for divination.
Speaking trees give prophecy.
Oracular flame.
Divination by heavenly bodies.
Divination by looking upon astrolabe.
Moon (stars) answers questions.
Magic cloud answers questions.
Sun answers questions.
Divination by stars.
Oracular image.
Oracular artificial head.
Oracular brazen lion.
Divination by head (skull).
Dog's head used for divination.
Cut-off head prophesies fight.
Coconut shell answers questions.
Divination by part of animal's body.
Divination by shoulder-bone of sheep.
Divination from gall and liver of pig.
Oracular river.
River says, "The time has come but not the man".
Oracular bell.
Bell sounds to designate pope.
Plant used for divination.
Mandrake as magic forecaster.
Weeds used for divination.
Divination from chance reading of sacred (magic) book.
Magic rod used for divination.
Magic yew rod used by druid to discover whereabouts of woman carried off by fairies to underground retreat.
Oracular stone.
Saint's blessing makes stone oracular.
Number of screams from stone indicates number of kings to descend from man standing upon it.
Divination by magic weapon.
Magic spear gives omen of victory.
Divination by magic arrow.
Lance sounds when knocked on shield, except when its owner will be defeated.
Oracular ring.
Divination by water.
Oracular pubic hair.
Divination by cup.
Divination from (sound of) wind.
Divination with chessboard.
Magic object gives advice.
Bodily members as advisers.
Excrements as advisers.
Magic bone gives advice.
Speaking grass gives advice.
Magic book gives advice.
Magic object points out road.
Magic ball indicates road.
Magic ball of thread indicates road.
Magic rolling cake indicates road.
Hat thrown in air indicates road.
Copper horseman indicates road.
Blinded trickster directed by trees.
Magic stick indicates road.
Saint's staff as an excellent pilot at sea.
Reed as direction finder.
Magic apple indicates road.
Magic flute indicates road.
Magic two-edged knife indicates direction.
Charm (medicine) indicates direction.
Magic feather indicates road.
Magic fountain indicates road for saint by removing itself.
Magic cake indicates road.
Magic shoe points out road.
Magic thornbush points out road.
Magic wheel indicates road.
Magic pillar of fire indicates direction.
Magic object indicates desired place.
Magic object shows place where person has been killed.
Magic arrow indicates desired place.
Magic arrow shot to determine place to lodge for night.
Magic arrow shot to determine where to build city.
Magic arrow shot to determine where to seek bride.
Magic arrow indicates place to build church.
Arrow shot to determine burial place.
Arrow shot into air discovers iron pit.
Arrow shot to discover direction of attacking army.
Magic wand (twig) locates hidden treasure.
Divining rod sinks at place where tribe shall settle.
Divining rod (twig) locates underground water supply.
Divining rod points to house of thief.
Divining rod (twig) points out spot where unwed mother had drowned child.
Saint's staff becomes tree to indicate building site.
Golden staff stuck into ground finds site for city.
Saint's bachall discovers gold.
Bell indicates place for settlement.
Saint's bell lands at place where monastery is to be founded.
Bell rings to indicate location of well.
Hand-of-glory indicates location of treasure.
Loaf of bread locates drowned man.
Magic plant (flower) shows location of treasure.
Mandrake shows location of treasure.
Jewels aid in search for treasure.
Magic cloth leads owner to lost horses.
Fiery pillar guides person (to church).
Seat-pillars thrown in the sea (with god's image) indicate where to settle.
Coffin lands where the dead is to be buried, and his son to settle.
Rope breaks at proper burial place.
Star indicates location of newborn hero.
Star of Bethlehem.
Four balls given to each of four impoverished men point out places where they should dig.
Dried root sprouts when planted to indicate spot where holy man should set up his abode.
Magic object locates lost person.
Magic arrow locates lost person.
Magic object reveals truth.
Stone reveals truth.
Magic lamp indicates falsehood by lighting.
Speaking spittle reveals truth.
Magic ring permits owner to learn person's secret thoughts.
Magic ring shows the true nature of its possessor.
Magic spectacles allow wearer to read others' thoughts.
Magic speaking reed (tree) betrays secret.
Voice comes forth from tree, revealing truth.
Magic goblet (cup) indicates truth or falsehood.
Magic sod indicates falsehood by turning grassy surface downward, truth by turning it upward.
Magic collar indicates falsehood by squeezing throat (hand, foot), truth by falling to ground.
Magic epistle (brought from apostle) assures wearer will utter truth.
Pig cooked when true story is told.
Sword turns upon owner when untruth is uttered.
Magic root reveals truth when water is poured over it.
Magic bird's tongue reveals truth.
Magic object warns of danger.
Magic object detects poison.
Buttocks as magic watcher.
Magic gall-bladder warns of danger.
Magic swallow-skin warns of danger.
Magic bracelet warns of poison.
Truth-telling voice in wall warns against poisoned food.
Magic ring gives warning.
Magic ring warns of poison.
Magic ring awakens person in morning.
Magic sword gives warning.
Sword bursts in son's hand when he is about to kill his father.
Magic bell gives alarm.
Magic dice give warning.
Statue gives warning.
Brass (copper) statue at city gates blows on trumpet at stranger's approach.
Wagon refuses to move because ghost is sitting in it.
Bedstead warns of danger of snake.
Magic stone gives warning.
Stone bleeds three days before church is plundered.
Magic shield roars when bearer is in danger.
Bones (human) warn of danger.
Golden cock on tent warns against danger.
Magic spear warns of danger.
Knife sings as warning of fraud.
Magic drinking horn gives warning.
Cloak warns.
Tree warns of danger.
House-pillars warn.
Water rages by boat of would-be murderer.
Magic object reveals guilt.
Magic object picks out guilty man.
Stone reveals guilt.
Stone bursts as sign of unjust judgment.
Dead fish reveals guilt.
Laughing fish reveals unjust judgment.
Charms indicate guilt.
Magic seed indicates guilt.
Blood indicates guilt or innocence.
Blood springs from murderer's finger when he touches victim.
Corpse bleeds when murderer touches it.
Each drop of innocent blood turns to burning candle.
Speaking blood reveals murder.
Blood drops from stone to indicate girl's innocence.
Blood bubbles at place of murder.
Divining bones reveal guilt.
Flesh reveals guilt.
Speaking flesh reveals murder.
Flesh of animal reveals guilt.
Flesh of stolen animal cannot be cooked (turns putrid).
Food sticks in thief's throat and betrays him.
Magic cloth reveals guilt.
Magic cloth betrays thief.
Ring reveals guilt.
Ring springs asunder when faithlessness of lover is learned.
Ship reveals guilt.
Ship refuses to move with guilty man aboard.
Light reveals guilt.
Light where murder is committed.
Vessels reveal guilt.
Vessels burst and reveal disobedience.
Poet's spell causes ale vessels to burst when request for ale is refused.
Magic cauldron reveals guilt.
Sack of gold retains at will any hand thrust in it.
Mill will not grind stolen wheat.
Speaking earth reveals murder.
River rises to drown liars.
Apples which grow from tree under which murder was done have red centers.
Manna reveals guilt.
Magic object warns of death.
Saw for coffin-making sounds to announce death.
Hammer in coffin maker's shop makes noise to announce a death.
Boards for coffin making mysteriously moved announces death.
Light moving toward cemetery as sign of death.
Magic object gives clairvoyance.
Magic clairvoyant mirror.
Magic mirror reflects the face of whoever dies.
Magic clairvoyant vase.
Magic clairvoyant windows.
Magic clairvoyant sphere.
Salvatio Romae.
Magic salve gives clairvoyance (Cf.
Magic soap gives clairvoyance.
Turf from church roof gives clairvoyance.
Churchyard mould gives clairvoyance.
Clairvoyant tube.
Hat gives clairvoyance.
Hair gives clairvoyance.
Clairvoyance by looking at object filled with water.
Clairvoyant spring.
Magic powder gives clairvoyance.
Four-leaf clover gives clairvoyance.
Magic clairvoyant telescope.
Magic feather gives clairvoyance.
Magic clairvoyant girdle.
Clairvoyance from prayer.
Lamp gives him who looks into its flame a vision of the Most High.
Magic object indicates tides.
Magic bag full at high tide, empty at ebb tide.
Magic tub drips at high tide, is watertight at ebb tide.
Magic faggot drips to indicate rising tide.
Magic object reveals future history.
Magic book wherein is written family's destiny.
Magic object renders judgment.
Magic slippers approve or disapprove judicial decisions.
Magic object locates fish (game).
Magic arrow locates fish.
Magic doll consulted for hunting.
Magic object gives supernatural information--miscellaneous.
Putting head under saint's cloak reveals rewards of heaven.
Magic object affects eyesight.
Object gives magic sight.
Hempseed sown to acquire magic sight.
Medicine gives magic sight.
Fan gives magic sight.
Stone gives magic sight.
Jewel gives magic sight.
Sapphire gives magic sight.
Magic object blinds.
Magic spike causes blindness.
Magic salve causes blindness.
Magic salve from underworld causes blindness.
Virgin Mary's shift as banner causes blindness to opposing army.
Magic stone causes blindness.
Sight of magic wheel causes blindness.
Magic mirror causes blindness.
Dog's urine makes tiger blind.
Magic storm blinds enemy troops.
Magic wind blinds.
Magic object causes both supernatural sight and blindness.
Salve causes magic sight and blindness.
Powder causes magic sight and blindness.
Magic antimony, rubbed on hero's eyes, will make whatever he looks at become far or near, as he desires it.
Magic object causes sight-shifting.
Saint's gospel-book causes sight-shifting.
Magic object affects hearing.
Magic object deafens.
Magic stone causes deafness.
Sound of magic wheel causes deafness.
Object gives magic strength.
Magic strength-giving food.
Magic strength-giving rice-grain.
Heart of enemy eaten produces magic strength.
Fighting animals eaten produce magic strength.
Manna produces magic strength.
Magic strength-giving drink.
Blood as magic strengthening drink.
Water as magic strengthening drink.
Milk as magic strengthening drink.
Magic (iron) glove gives strength.
Magic belt gives strength.
Magic ring gives strength.
Magic ring gives remarkable sexual prowess.
Solomon's power to hold kingdom dependent on ring; drops it in water.
Magic dagger gives strength.
Flask imparts magic strength to drinker.
Bathing in magic cauldron gives strength.
Magic axe gives strength.
Magic medicine (charm) gives strength.
Powder gives magic strength.
Magic song gives strength.
Magic hammer gives strength.
Magic strengthening staff.
Magic strength-giving apple.
Image of lion gives magic strength.
Garment gives bearer magic strength.
Magic object gives weakness.
Magic sword gives weakness.
Magic food gives weakness.
Magic apple gives weakness.
Magic music gives weakness.
Magic shield gives weakness.
Saint's bell gives weakness.
Magic fire gives weakness.
Magic drink gives weakness.
Magic spell gives weakness.
Druids' (poets') spells bind.
When bow is taken away from owner, he loses all strength.
Magic object makes beautiful or hideous.
Magic object beautifies.
Charm gives magic beauty.
Water gives magic beauty.
Milk gives magic beauty.
Bathing hair in buffalo milk makes it unusually long.
Bathing in magic cauldron gives beauty.
Magic spear gives beauty.
Beautification by use of saint's spittle.
Magic needle transforms a room from plainness to beauty.
Magic liquid gives beauty.
Rose water gives magic beauty.
Magic wand beautifies.
Magic apple makes beautiful.
Playing of magic flute beautifies.
Magic jewel beautifies.
Magic object makes hideous.
Magic leaves turn white bird black.
Magic herbs render hideous.
Dragon's breath renders hideous.
Magic water makes ugly.
Magic skin makes person appear ugly.
Magic object rejuvenates.
Magic object retards aging.
Elixir retards aging.
Magic drink rejuvenates.
Fountain of youth.
Magic lake rejuvenates.
Water of youth.
Magic blood rejuvenates.
Rejuvenation by plant.
Rejuvenation by juice of plant.
Root of eternal youth.
Rejuvenation by fruit.
Rejuvenation by apple.
Magic peach gives immunity from age.
Rejuvenation by fruit of magic tree.
Year added to life by eating fruit of magic tree.
Bath in magic milk rejuvenates.
Rejuvenation by ring.
Rejuvenation in magic mill.
Land of youth.
Rejuvenation by magic oil.
Rejuvenation by magic honey.
Rejuvenation by magic tub.
Rejuvenation by magic manure dust.
Rejuvenation by magic feather.
Rejuvenation by magic rice.
Magic object makes person old.
Magic well makes person's hair gray.
Magic fountain makes person old.
Magic cloak makes person old.
Magic ointment makes person old.
Magic feather brings supernatural old age.
Magic object gives health.
Magic ring gives health.
Magic apple gives health.
Magic wood gives health.
Magic wand gives health.
Amulet guarantees health.
Magic object gives skill.
Magic oars give skill.
Magic object gives invulnerability.
Magic ring renders invulnerable.
Magic drug renders invulnerable.
Magic drug gives immunity from fire and iron.
Amulet renders invulnerable.
Charm (written) renders invulnerable.
Magic ointment renders invulnerable.
Saint's tunic renders invulnerable.
Saint's girdle renders invulnerable.
Saint's cowl renders invulnerable.
Hood renders invulnerable.
Magic garment renders invulnerable.
Magic shirt gives invulnerability.
Magic trousers render invulnerable.
Magic mandrake gives invulnerability.
Magic sword gives invulnerability.
Blood smeared on body renders invulnerable.
Magic (golden) helmet renders invulnerable.
Magic object gives longevity.
Serpent's water gives longevity.
Magic statue of dragon gives longevity.
Magic object gives immortality.
Magic drink gives immortality.
Water of life destroyed to prevent immortality: too long life would become tiresome.
Nectar of immortality.
Fountain of immortality.
Food of immortality.
Magic honey gives immortality.
Tree of immortality.
Plant of immortality.
Fruit of immortality.
Magic peach gives immortality.
Apple of immortality.
Pill of immortality.
Magic ointment gives immortality.
Oil of immortality.
Magic sword gives immortality.
Magic water (sprinkled) gives immortality.
Medicine gives immortality.
Incense gives immortality.
Filth (dirt, excrements) eaten gives immortality.
Magic cup gives immortality.
Magic object produces fecundity.
Magic apple produces fecundity.
Blood as remedy for barrenness in woman.
Magic medicine makes sterile fertile.
Magic pills insure birth of twin sons.
Magic statue gives fecundity.
Magic fish (eaten) causes fecundity.
Hare's stomach causes fecundity.
Magic object produces miscellaneous physical changes in persons or things.
Magic object produces immunity from hunger and thirst.
Magic peach produces immunity from hunger and thirst.
Magic perfume produces immunity from hunger and thirst.
Magic milk produces immunity from hunger and thirst.
Magic belt produces immunity from hunger.
Magic sweets: one can quench thirst and the other can allay hunger.
Tiny amount of food magically satisfies.
One drop of blood when licked satisfies hunger.
Magic object produces immunity from old age.
Magic peach produces immunity from old age.
Washing in magic bowl produces immunity from old age.
Magic apple produces immunity from old age.
Magic stone makes water like wine.
Magic jewel makes owner fat.
Magic object makes person peaceful.
Saint's bachall makes person peaceful.
Magic branch of peace.
Magic veil changes enmity into peacefulness.
Charm which makes inhabitants of city faint-hearted.
Magic object has pre-natal influence.
Magic net has prenatal influence.
Magic object makes person foolish.
Magic rain makes people foolish.
Magic object makes person kind.
Love-producing magic object.
Magic spear produces love-sickness.
Love-producing music.
Love-producing song.
Magic love-producing pipe (musical).
Magic love-producing horn.
Magic love-philtre.
Water blessed by saint as love-philtre.
Baptismal water as love-philtre.
Magic water causes sexual desire.
Blood as love-philtre.
Blood of wounded centaur as love philtre.
Semen in love-philtre.
Love charm.
Seed mixed with blood as love charm.
Image (animal) pierced with pins as love charm.
Fruit pierced with pins as love charm.
Entrails of live pigeon placed above house door fetch lover to the spot.
Boiling lock of lover's hair draws him to sweetheart.
Burning candle stuck with pins fetches lover.
Person burns salt and says charm to bring lover to spot.
Person burns dragonsblood (plant) and says charm to bring lover to spot.
Ring produces love.
Magic hair produces love.
Churchyard mould produces love.
Apple produces love.
Olive branch insures fidelity of husband.
Magic belt produces love.
Consecrated bread produces love.
Consecrated bread kept in mouth and fed to toad produces love.
Magic clothes produce love.
Magic moccasins produce love.
Magic nuts (eaten) produce love.
Love-spot.
Charm placed on cheeks of hag causes love.
Eaten fruit causes sexual desire.
Magic shears produce love.
Magic rod produces love.
Herb bath produces love.
Love charm (words).
Word charms woven in clothing produce love.
Magic writings produce love.
Green stone causes women to love the possessor.
Magic grass produces love when girl sleeps on it.
Love charm from tuber.
Love-producing magic plant.
Love-producing magic feather.
Magic object represses lust.
Magic girdle represses lust.
Saint's girdle represses lust.
Magic stone represses lust.
Magic object makes person cruel.
Eating ferocious animal's heart makes person cruel.
Magic object makes person courageous.
Eating courageous animal's heart makes courageous.
Eating dragon's heart makes courageous.
Eating serpent's and wolf's flesh makes courageous and impetuous.
Magic spell makes person courageous.
Magic crystal makes owner courageous.
Magic object changes person's disposition--miscellaneous.
Magic object makes woman masterful.
Magic olive branch makes woman master in household.
Magic object causes mourning.
Magic music causes mourning.
Magic object causes joy.
Magic music causes joy.
Magic (musical) horn (bell) relieves hearers of sorrow.
Magic musical branch soothes listeners.
Grief dispelled by sound of bell attached to magic fairy dog.
Happiness from eating magic pig.
Fruit of magic tree exhilarating.
Stone blessed by saint banishes sorrow.
Magic food causes intoxication and sobriety.
Magic sign assures that warriors will not flee from battle.
Magic object destroys pride.
Magic object renders invisible.
Magic mist of invisibility.
Demons cause impenetrable fog.
Magic mist separates person from his companions.
Magic stone gives invisibility.
Magic ash-tree renders invisible.
Magic calabash renders invisible.
Magic seed renders invisible.
Magic fernseed renders invisible.
Magic flower renders invisible.
"Hand of glory" renders light invisible.
Heart of unborn child renders person invisible.
Serpent's crown renders invisible.
Magic feather renders invisible.
Magic herb renders invisible.
Magic cloak of invisibility.
Saint's tunic renders invisible.
Magic belt renders invisible.
Magic hat renders invisible.
Magic cap renders invisible: tarnkappe.
Saint's cowl renders invisible.
Magic ring renders invisible.
Magic sword renders invisible.
Magic jewel renders invisible.
Helmet renders invisible.
Ship becomes invisible.
Magic medicine renders invisible.
Magic pills render invisible.
Magic salve renders invisible.
Magic charm renders invisible.
Magic drops render invisible.
Magic wand renders invisible.
Magic staff renders invisible.
Magic formula renders invisible.
Magic light renders invisible.
Magic mirror renders invisible.
Magic animal's heart renders invisible.
Magic bird-nest renders invisible.
Magic song renders invisible.
Magic mask renders invisible.
Magic veil renders invisible.
Magic bag renders invisible.
Magic tiger's hair renders invisible.
Magic trousers render invisible.
Magic shirt renders invisible.
Magic boots render invisible (Cf.
Fact that woman bears future saint in womb renders her invisible.
Magic cloth renders invisible.
Cross renders invisible.
Magic lampblack renders invisible.
Magic mark on forehead renders invisible.
Magic ashes render invisible.
Object causes magic sleep.
Ring wakes from magic sleep.
Hero can only wake when a certain axe falls down.
Fountain causes magic sleep.
Sleep-thorn.
Flowers cause magic sleep.
Fruit causes magic sleep.
Apple causes magic sleep.
Figs cause magic sleep.
Saint's breath causes magic sleep.
Feather causes magic sleep.
Sleeping potion: drink causes magic sleep.
Liquor blessed by saint causes magic sleep.
Enchanted stockings cause magic sleep.
Comb causes magic sleep.
Dagger causes magic sleep.
Pillow causes magic sleep.
Contents of bottle cause magic sleep.
Cloth causes magic sleep.
Needle causes magic sleep.
Pin causes magic sleep.
Hairpin causes magic sleep.
Spindle causes magic sleep.
Wand causes magic sleep.
Cigar causes magic sleep.
Magic runes cause sleep.
Magic card causes sleep.
Sleep-charm.
Song causes magic sleep.
Music causes magic sleep.
Musical instrument causes magic sleep.
Musical branch causes magic sleep.
Flute causes magic sleep.
Drum causes magic sleep.
Pipe (musical) causes magic sleep.
Silver rods cause magic sleep.
Sword causes magic sleep.
Smoke from magic purse makes man sleep.
Touch of glove and ring causes sleep.
Tooth of fox causes magic sleep.
Plant produces sleep.
Jewel causes magic sleep.
Object causes magic forgetfulness.
Plant causes magic forgetfulness.
Lotus causes forgetfulness.
Myrtle causes forgetfulness.
Laurel causes forgetfulness.
Drink causes magic forgetfulness.
Food causes magic forgetfulness.
Girdle causes forgetfulness.
Ring causes forgetfulness.
Magic cup causes forgetfulness.
Breath causes magic forgetfulness.
Magic medicine causes loss of memory.
Medicines of forgetfulness and remembering.
Tower causes magic forgetfulness.
Magic writings on drinking horn cause forgetfulness.
"Brain of forgetfulness" lost by person in battle.
Magic object causes memory.
Magic drink causes memory.
Lack of magic necklace causes forgetfulness.
Magic object causes insanity.
Magic plant causes insanity.
Magic drink causes insanity.
Magic spell causes insanity.
Magic wisp (withe) causes insanity.
Runes cause frenzy.
Magic food causes insanity.
Magic object causes illusions.
Magic snake-oil causes illusions.
Ointment applied to eyes makes night seem day.
Magic ring causes illusion.
Magic cloak causes illusion.
Tree of delusion.
Magic forest seems to stretch farther as mortals travel within.
Magic object causes continued sneezing.
Magic ring causes continued sneezing.
Magic object causes constant hunger.
Magic object causes constant thirst.
Magic lamp (eaten, causes thirst.) Fetish medicine causes constant hunger.
Two loaves of bread--one to excite, the other to appease hunger.
Magic object causes longing.
Magic music causes longing.
Magic object causes (or removes) temporary growths.
Magic object causes horns to grow on person.
Magic fruit causes horns to grow on person.
Magic apples cause horns to grow on person.
Magic peaches cause horns to grow on person.
Magic orange causes horns to grow on person.
Magic cherries cause horns to grow on person.
Magic figs cause horns to grow on person.
Magic pear causes horns to grow on person.
Magic plums cause horns to grow on person.
Magic grapes cause horns to grow on person.
Magic dates cause horns to grow on person.
Magic berries cause horns to grow on person.
Magic vegetable causes horns to grow on person.
Charm causes horns to grow on person.
Blossom causes horns to grow on person.
Magic drink causes horns to grow on person.
Magic object removes horns from person.
Magic fruit removes horns from person.
Magic apple removes horns from person.
Magic orange removes horns from person.
Magic pear removes horns from person.
Magic nut removes horns from person.
Magic salve removes horns from person.
Magic water removes horns from person.
Blossoms remove horns from person.
Magic object causes wings to grow on person.
Magic ointment causes wings to grow on person.
Magic object causes tail to grow.
Magic plant causes tail to grow.
Magic plantain causes four tails to grow.
Magic fruit causes tail to grow.
Magic object causes humps to appear on back.
Magic object causes feathers to grow on person.
Magic egg causes feathers to grow on person.
Magic object causes members to grow long or short.
Magic object makes nose long (restores it.) Magic fruit makes nose long (restores it.)
Magic apple makes nose long (restores it).
Magic cherry makes nose long (restores it).
Magic ring makes nose grow long (restores it).
Magic object changes person's size.
Magic comb changes person's size at will.
Magic object produces miscellaneous temporary changes in persons, animals, or objects.
Magic object controls person's will.
Magic runes control person's will.
Magic writings (runes) cause dead to speak.
Magic writings (runes) produce enmity.
Magic picture causes people to wet the bed.
"Milk-medicine" causes milk to appear in woman's breast.
Magic object protects a city.
Palladium.
Waberlohe.
Pillar of fire protects in desert.
Tree (plant) protects.
Calabash as guardian of girl.
Tree as guardian of girl.
Head of divinity as protection of land.
Magic head of horse as protection of land.
Magic tent protects occupant.
Magic water protects.
Magic coal protects.
Magic soot protects.
Magic ashes protect.
Magic earth (dirt) protects.
Magic string protects.
Magic jewel protects (Cf.
Magic bedstead protects from harm.
Magic story protects.
Magic poems protect.
Magic hymn protects.
Magic well protects.
Magic dog protects.
Magic statue of dog protects.
Magic cup protects.
Magic cloth protects.
Magic club protects ten men.
Runes protect.
Magic ointment protects.
Magic feather protects.
Magic ring protects.
Spell overcomes all danger.
Magic cloud protects.
Reindeer hose from corpse protect women.
Magic object protects from attack.
Druid's hedge prevents attack.
Saint's spittle protects fugitive from attack.
Magic garment protects against attack.
Garment proof against all but man's own sword.
Magic unpierceable (horn) skin protects against attack.
A protective garment which spears could not penetrate.
Magic coat protects against attack.
Christ's coat of mercy protects Pilate from punishment.
Magic shirt protects against attack.
Stone necklace protects from attack.
Magic ring protects from attack.
Arms that protect from attack.
Dagger protects owner from attack.
Magic armor protects from attack.
Magic impenetrable breastplate.
Magic unpierceable cuirass.
Magic unpierceable helmet.
Magic impenetrable yoke.
Magic circle protects from devil.
Magic circle protects from wild animals.
Magic circle protects from ghosts.
Saint's bachall keeps off enemies.
Magic fly-whisk stops sword-thrusts.
Magic girdle protects from all wounds.
Red wards off danger.
Magic letters (amulets) guard against attack by wild animals or men.
Spear in ground pointed toward ferocious animal protects.
Magic belt assures victory.
Magic chain protects from attack.
Sacred relics protect against attack.
Magic fan protects against attack.
Magic mist protects against attack.
Magic spell causes fortress to revolve, preventing entrance.
Magic letter protects against attack.
Reading letter written by Christ protects against attack.
Carrying saint's book around army right-handwise insures victory.
Dextrorsum circuit (around sacred stone) insures victory.
Magic veil protects from attack.
Magic song stops spears.
Magic tree protects from attack.
Speaking lamp prevents king from killing queen.
Rider on magic horse immune to harm or danger.
Magic gate swallows axes trying to force it open.
Staff protects from attack.
Magic object protects against cold or burning.
Magic pebble prevents burning.
Magic stones from holy well protect against loss by fire or water.
Fat of crow prevents burning.
Magic cake protects from heat.
Magic oil prevents burning.
Magic fire does not burn one.
Flaming shield does not burn owner.
Magic shirt protects from cold and burning.
Magic garment protects from fire.
Song protects from fire.
Magic hymn protects from fire.
Magic song protects from frost and cold.
Magic stream quenches fire.
Magic cowl protects from fire.
Magic cowl protects from cold.
Magic garment prevents burning.
Magic ring protects against fire.
Magic blue stone protects against frost.
Blood of salamander protects against fire.
Magic object protects from poison.
Magic garment protects from poison.
Charms protect from poison.
Magic ring protects against poison.
Song protects against poison.
Magic hymn protects against poison.
Leek in beer protects against poison.
Magic red stone protects from poison.
Magic object protects from discomfort or from accident on journey.
Magic ring prevents discomfiture.
Noose used by suicide as protection from accident.
Charm gives safety on journey.
Turning right-handwise insures safe journey.
Charms prevent fatigue.
Magic shirt prevents fatigue during swimming.
Magic blue stone prevents fatigue during swimming.
Song as protection on journey.
Ointment gives protection on journey.
Magic ring prevents losing one's way.
Magic object protects from evil spirits.
Earth from saint's grave expels demons.
Plant as antidote to spells and enchantments.
Herbs worn in ears keep off power of evil spirits.
Rue, when burned, keeps evil spirits at a distance.
Hawthorn protects travelers.
Witch will never visit a house where pipal is strewn.
Ash (quicken, rowan) protects against spells and enchantment.
Roots protect from evil spirits.
Mandrake protects from evil spirits.
Garlic protects from evil spirits.
Marriage ring protects from devil.
Magic ring protects from spirit.
Silver bullet protects against giants, ghosts, and witches.
Witch shot dead with bullet of salt.
Metal as defense against spirits.
Copper as defense against ghosts and magic.
Axe driven into house entrance keeps werwolf out.
Magic salve protects from enchantment.
Magic circle averts sorcery.
Saint's bachall keeps off monsters and ghosts.
Magic horseshoe keeps off devils, trolls, and witches.
Wheel buried in doorstep to prevent deviltry.
Churchyard mould in hat prevents witchery.
Magic bell disperses demons.
Saint's bell rung against black birds (demons).
Charm prevents witchcraft.
Ineffable Name subjugates demons.
Milk of two king's children protects hero in dragon fight.
Holy water and mass prevent demons alighting on grave.
Holy water dispels demons.
Magic hymn protects against demons and vices.
Magic hymn protects against spells of druids.
Magic hymn protects against spells of smiths.
Magic hymn protects against spells of women.
Magic measurement protects against devil.
Magic thread protects against demons.
Clothing protects from evil spirit.
Saint's hose protects woman from devil.
Runes protect from the curse of a dead Christian woman.
Magic stone makes demons despair.
Bedstead at doorway prevents spirit from entering.
Magic quilt protects wearer from demons and human weapons.
Amulet guards against sorcery.
Magic book disperses demons.
Red color protects against demons.
Meal of fishes protects against demons.
Magic honey protects against demons.
Magic lamp protects against demons.
Magic object protects from unwelcome lover.
Magic sword protects woman from fairy lover in husband's absence.
Magic herb keeps off demon lover.
Clever woman and devil as paramour.
Magic object preserves chastity.
Amulet preserves chastity.
Magic charm (writings) preserves chastity.
Magic belt protects against husband.
Magic object protects from drowning.
Magic ring protects from drowning.
Magic veil keeps man from sinking in water.
Magic chain protects from drowning.
Magic garment protects from drowning.
By means of magic bag it is possible to stay as long on the bottom of the sea as one wants.
By means of magic helmet it is possible to stay on the bottom of the sea as long as one wants.
Magic object protects from shipwreck.
Saint's bachall protects from shipwreck.
Herb protects from storms at sea.
Runes protect from storm and shipwreck.
Magic stone keeps flood from overflowing earth.
Magic object affords miscellaneous protection.
Magic stone protects church from oppression.
Charms against theft.
Theft from church prevented by apparent heat.
Thieves cannot cross a river because the water suddenly becomes too hot for them.
Magic cup protects against loss of strength.
Magic wheel prevents entrance to fortress.
Magic spear protects against spell.
Saint's bell carried around tribe averts all danger.
Magic shirt protects against opposition.
Magic helmet prevents baldness.
Magic hymn protects against poverty, death and dishonor.
Magic red stone protects against poverty.
Magic ring prevents poverty.
Magic measurement protects against sudden death.
Magic armature protects soul from hurt.
Leek put under the tongue of supposed dead person preserves him from harm by burial.
Magic plant banishes fear.
Sword puts to flight five evil passions.
Magic incense protects from plague.
Magic girdle protects from pain.
Hairs of lion, when burnt, get owner out of difficulties.
Magic object saves person from execution.
Miraculous rain extinguishes fire used at stake.
Saint's bachall saves prisoner from execution.
Magic object saves owner from death.
Amulet saves one from death.
Magic object helps fugitive.
Tree opens and conceals fugitive.
Woman charms stick of wood so she can hide inside it.
Magic object maintains quiet so that fugitive may escape.
Magic storm protects hidden children.
Tree points way to fugitive but misdirects enemy.
Magic thorn-tree attacks pursuer and helps fugitive.
Magic object helps hero in trial.
Trial by ordeal subverted by carrying magic object.
Magic object enables one to withstand inquisitorial torture.
Magic object frees person from prison.
Escape from prison by use of magic fiddle.
Escape from prison by use of magic tablecloth.
Escape from prison by use of magic purse.
Saint's bachall enables captive to escape.
Magic ring enables captive to escape.
Escape from prison by use of charm (formula).
Escape from prison by use of magic hymn.
All fetters loosed on the night of Christ's Nativity.
Magic centipede enables captive to make hole in wall.
Magic object breaks spells.
Magic goblet breaks spells.
Rescue by magic object--miscellaneous.
Magic spinning rod pulls horse out of the earth.
Magic object conquers enemies.
Magic trousers conquer enemy.
Magic ring conquers enemy.
Magic fan conquers enemy.
Magic weapon conquers enemy.
Magic sword conquers enemy.
Sacred sword of saint repulses army of heretics.
Magic saber conquers enemy.
Magic knife conquers enemy.
Magic spear conquers enemy.
Hercules' bow and arrow essential to capture Troy.
Magic stone axe conquers enemies.
Magic arrows annihilate army.
Magic jewel conquers enemies.
Magic amulet in mouth conquers enemies.
Magic staff defeats enemies.
Magic club (stick) gives victory.
Magic cup gives victory.
Saint's bell conquers enemies.
Saint rings the church bells, and enemies flee in dismay.
Charm gives victory in fight.
Magic runes give power over enemy.
Magic oath stops killer and sends invading army back.
Saint's bachall defeats enemies.
Saint's bachall overcomes beast in hell.
Magic mirror kills enemy soldiers.
Magic stone (jewel) gives victory.
Armor gives victory.
Magic banner gives victory.
Magic helmet gives victory.
Thread from jogi's garment when pulled makes fort fall to ground.
Magic feather defeats enemy.
Magic (human) head defeats enemy.
Magic (human) head causes fortress to crumble.
Bull's tail becomes a stick that lashes hero's enemies and exterminates an army.
Raja's guards magically transform stones and dry bones rained upon him by army of witches and turn them back.
Magic storm conquers enemies.
Magic wind sinks five pursuing demons in sea.
Lightning in magic box kills an army sent by king to conquer hero.
Magic object cudgels person.
Magic club (stick) beats person.
Magic cudgel beats animals to death for owner.
Magic sack furnishes mannikin who cudgels owner's enemies.
Magic whip beats person.
Magic pot with demons who beat owner's enemy.
Magic stone hits everything and returns by itself.
Magic hammer beats person.
Magic slipper beats person.
Log of wood animated by spirit of malignant holy man strikes left and right to kill offending villagers.
Magic bone beats king's face.
Magic object kills.
Magic object burns person up.
Magic shield shoots balls of fire among enemies.
Holy man's cloak burns person up.
Magic object causes person to be drowned.
Magic well causes person to be drowned.
Magic spell causes person to be drowned.
Magic ring causes person to be drowned.
Magic plant kills.
Magic hair in man's eyebrow kills all who see it.
Magic part of animal kills.
Magic serpent heart kills giant.
Magic leopard gall causes death.
Magic animal horn kills.
Magic jaw bone of ass kills.
Magic fire kills.
Nessus-shirt.
Magic bracelet kills man.
Magic weapon kills.
Weapons magically venomous.
Magic sword kills man.
Magic sword slays a man daily.
Magic sword always inflicts mortal wounds.
Magic spear kills.
Magic spear always inflicts mortal wounds.
Magic all-killing spear-head.
Magic spear's point harmless, while its shaft inflicts mortal blow.
Magic spear kills man.
Magic lance kills.
Magic cartridge kills.
Magic arrow kills.
Arrows rubbed with black chicken fatal.
Magic breath kills.
Magic door catches bear so that he is burned to death.
Magic wand kills.
Stick, become a sword, flies through air to kill ferocious animal-guardians of extraordinary lotus.
Rod from magic hazel-tree kills snake immediately.
Magic song kills person.
Magic music kills person.
Magic ring kills.
Druid's spells kill Christian king.
Druid's spells kill enemies.
Druid's spells cause drowning.
Druidess' spell causes drowning.
Charm used to kill.
Magic circle of saliva kills dragon.
Magic charmed spittle kills.
Magic poem (satire) causes king to waste away.
Magic poem (satire) causes man to melt.
Magic poem (satire) causes death.
Satire causes ulcers on face.
Magic mustard-seed causes man to turn to ashes.
Magic mustard seed causes man to be dead for an hour.
Magic bedstead-legs kill dangerous animals.
Excrements cause approaching animals to fall dead.
Magic statue kills.
Magic statue of animal kills.
Magic wheel kills all upon whom it falls.
Magic stone kills person whom it strikes.
Magic harp kills.
Killing with head of fallen enemy.
Water from magic fountain kills.
Giant kills people by sprinkling water on their heads.
Magic pills kill.
Magic pills reduce snake to ashes.
Magic wind kills.
Magic dust kills snake.
Handkerchief whirled against advancing army stretches them lifeless.
Magic drum enters enemy's body and kills him.
Magic coat kills.
Magic salt kills.
Magic tomb kills.
Magic object maims.
Magic poem (satire) raises blotches on face.
Magic poem causes deformity.
Magic well maims.
Magic drink causes arms to fall from shoulders.
Magic object pierces.
Magic rod pierces whatever directed against.
Drop of hound's blood from magic spear (lance) pierces owner's foot (head).
Magic object causes person to disappear.
Magic ring causes person to disappear.
Magic object helps win in law court.
Charm to win cases in law court.
Magic object helps gambler win.
Magic ring helps gambler win.
Hangman's noose gives luck in gambling.
Magic game board helps win.
Charm gives victory in game of dice.
Magic object devastates country.
Magic sphere burns up country.
Magic bark sets creek on fire and burns it up.
Magic red wind devastates country.
Magic object overcomes person--miscellaneous.
Magic object brings evil (bad luck) upon person.
Magic wand brings evil upon person.
Magic roll of cloth pacifies demon.
Seeds cast on lions and tigers render them helpless.
Light from hand-of-glory renders person helpless.
Magic fluid takes away magic powers.
Possession of mermaid's belt gives power over her.
Serpent charmed into helplessness by magic formula.
Drink from magic cup deprives man of legs.
Magic bag shaken against enemies renders them helpless in face of mist or poison.
When spying follower accidentally touches holy man's cloak he loses his eyesight and falls down senseless.
Magic object binds person (animal).
Magic rope binds person.
Magic whip holds person fast.
Magic grass holds person fast.
Magic charm binds deer so that it cannot move.
Magic object pulls person into it.
Magic bag draws person into it.
Magic pot draws person into it.
Flames draw person into them.
Magic object holds person fast.
Magic object causes persons to stick together.
Magic formula causes persons to stick together.
Tree from which one cannot descend.
Cherry tree from which one cannot descend.
Pear tree from which one cannot descend.
Fig tree from which one cannot descend.
Ring prevents person from rising from chair.
Sleigh makes person magically hold on.
Stairs to which person sticks.
Bench to which person sticks.
Chair to which person sticks.
Basin to which one sticks.
Chamber-pot to which one sticks.
Sack holds person who puts hand into it.
Wallet (sack) from which one cannot escape.
Anvil to which one sticks.
Magic medicine causes person to stick to seat (pot).
Magic hand causes sword to stick to it.
Magic stick holds person fast.
Magic cauldron (cup) to which one sticks.
Magic window holds person fast.
Magic door holds person fast.
Magic doorstep will not let person pass over.
Magic adhesive stone.
Magic ball of string to which one sticks.
Magic plain to which one sticks.
Magic earth-mould holds person fast.
Magic grass holds person fast.
Magic cloth holds person fast.
Magic drinking-tube holds person fast.
Grave holds person fast.
Magic scabbard causes sword to stick to it.
Magic object renders weapon useless.
Magic object makes fortifications useless.
Magic wand breaks enemy's sword.
Magic writings on sword render it harmless.
Magic wind causes arms to fall from warrior's hands.
Magic song dulls enemy's sword.
Magic garment makes weapons useless.
Magic object compels person to dance.
Water from magic well causes person to dance.
Magic musical instrument causes person to dance.
Magic horn causes dancing.
Magic clarinet causes dancing.
Magic flute causes dancing.
Magic pipe causes dancing.
Magic fiddle causes dancing.
Magic lute causes dancing.
Magic lute causes animals to dance.
Magic object imprisons person.
Magic circle prevents escape.
Magic object causes person to become lost.
Magic mist causes person to become lost.
Magic object renders person helpless--miscellaneous.
Magic object compels person to laugh (shriek).
Magic grave compels person to laugh (shriek).
Magic object paralyzes.
Magic bell paralyzes perjurer.
Magic object prevents ship from moving.
Saint's bachall prevents ship from moving.
Magic food brings eater into sender's power.
Person drawn by magic spell.
Person follows magic receding well.
Guitar charming all who hear it.
Helper summoned by calling his name.
Magic object summons helper.
Magic bell summons helper.
Magic ashes summon helper.
Magic hair when thrown into fire summons supernatural.
Magic object summons genie.
Magic tinder summons genie.
Magic fire-steel summons genie.
Magic book summons genie.
Magic light summons genie.
Magic lamp summons genie.
Magic ring summons genie.
Magic incense (when burned) summons genie.
Magic sword (rubbed) summons genie.
Magic hair summons demon.
Magic roll of cloth summons demon.
Magic chain summons genie.
Magic pipe summons genie.
Magic ring summons air spirits.
Opening bottle summons genie.
Magic object summons water-spirit.
Magic arrow summons water-spirit.
Magic object summons dwarfs.
Magic fiddle summons dwarfs.
Magic flute summons dwarfs.
Magic charm summons dwarfs.
Magic object summons giant.
Magic hairs summon giant.
Magic bow summons giant.
Magic object summons army for rescue.
Magic horn summons army for rescue.
Magic charm summons army.
Magic sack contains soldiers which appear when it is struck.
Magic object summons fairy.
Magic flute summons fairy.
Magic object draws lover (husband) to woman.
Magic spindle brings back prince for heroine.
Magic hairs summon husband.
Magic fan summons prince for heroine.
Magic object draws woman to man.
Magic objects help hero win princess.
Magic flute compels woman to come to man.
Magic ring causes woman to come to man.
Magic pipe compels woman to come to man.
Magic object compels one to follow.
Magic pipe compels one to follow.
Woman's arm-tassel lent to ogre compels her to follow him.
Magic horsehairs (when rubbed) compel horse to follow.
Lute (rubbed) compels one to follow.
Harp compels one to follow.
Magic club brings thieves to master.
Magic object fetches another object.
Magic hair draws back quiver from which it has been taken.
Charm causes spearhead to return.
Magic object draws person (thing) to it--miscellaneous.
Magic stone turned thrice compels person to return to it.
Magic object pursues.
Rock (stone) pursues person.
Pursuit by magic fan.
Pursuit by magic ring.
Pursuit by magic buckets.
Pursuit by magic calabash.
Waters magically pursue man.
Water gradually envelops girl filling pitcher and drowns her.
Magic hair stretches after fugitive.
Magic weapon pursues victim.
Spell causes spear to pursue and slay man.
Magic arrow pursues victim.
Magic club flies through air after victim.
Magic horn has power over animals.
Magic object calls animals together.
Magic musical instrument calls animals together.
Magic flute calls animals together.
Magic pipe calls animals together.
Magic fiddle calls animals together.
Magic lute calls animals together.
Magic harp calls animals together.
Magic song calls animals together.
Charm calls down swarm of bees.
Magic object tames or restrains animal.
Magic bridle restrains all horses.
Mad horse becomes tame when girl's voice reaches his ears.
Straw on horse's back restrains him.
Saint's bachall subdues wild animals.
Magic staff thrown causes wild animals to stand still.
Magic rod tames lions.
Saint's song silences hound.
Magic spell tames animals.
Spell tames horse.
Magic spell causes birds to roost.
Magic breath subdues animals.
"Witch bone" enables possessor to control animals in any way he wishes.
Magic meat pacifies animal guardians.
Magic whip makes docile animal-guardians of wonderful birds.
Diamond charms serpents into harmlessness.
Magic garment tames animals.
Magic musical instrument tames animals.
Magic object expels animals.
Charm expels flies from city.
Magic object catches animal.
Magic object catches fish.
Saint's bachall catches fish.
Magic wooden fish attracts live fish to fisherman's net.
Magic branch catches fish.
Magic charm allows person to hook mythical eel.
Charm to catch hare and monkey.
Magic fishhook catches cats.
Magic song to catch animals.
Magic object kills animal.
Revelation of magic secret permits animal to be killed.
Magic spear kills animals.
Saint's chant kills animal.
Magic poem (satire) kills animals.
Magic garment kills animals.
Magic object burns animals.
Magic clouds burn animals.
Magic heavenly fire burns animals.
Magic object prevents animal from straying.
Saint's bell keeps cattle from straying.
Saint's gospel-book keeps cattle from straying.
Shepherd's consecrated staff keeps cow from straying.
Saint's staff serves as a shepherd.
Magic circle keeps herd within it.
Magic object protects against wild animals.
Charm protects against wild animals.
Magic garment protects against wild animals.
Saint's cowl protects fox from hounds.
White ash stick held before snakes causes them to flee.
Magic object gives miscellaneous powers over animals.
Charm makes cows give plenty of milk.
Magic hunting collar insures death of game.
Swine summoned out of magic harp.
Charm prevents fish being caught.
Poet's incantations drive away fish.
Magic sand causes crocodile to go ashore.
Inexhaustible purse furnishes money.
Inexhaustible pocket furnishes money.
Inexhaustible bag (sack) furnishes money.
Magic vessel (box) furnishes money.
Magic kettle furnishes money.
Magic pot furnishes money.
Lid of casket furnishes money.
Magic conch shell furnishes money.
Coin put in huge bell fills it with rupees.
Parts of human body furnish treasure.
Hair furnishes treasure.
Gold and silver combed from hair.
The devil runs hands through his hair; coins fall to the floor.
Jewels from hair.
Treasure falls from mouth.
Flowers fall from lips.
Treasure from spittle.
Treasure from tears.
Tears of gold.
Jewels from tears.
Flowers from tears.
Treasure from excrements.
Treasure from scab.
Treasure from footprints.
Treasure issues from girl's head.
Treasure from nose (with sneezing).
Magic clothing furnishes treasure.
Magic mantle provides treasure.
Magic ornament provides treasure.
Magic beads produce treasure.
Magic ring provides money.
Magic ring multiplies wealth.
Magic jewel provides wealth.
Magic building provides treasure.
Magic castle (palace) provides treasure.
Magic tree furnishes treasure.
Tree with golden fruit.
Tree with silver branches.
Magic fruit furnishes treasure.
Magic plant furnishes treasure.
Magic mandrake furnishes treasure.
Magic calabash furnishes treasure.
Magic pumpkin furnishes treasure.
Magic seed produces golden gourd seed.
Magic tobacco plant hides treasure.
Treasure-giving magic flower (gold and silver).
Magic grass furnishes treasure.
Magic food furnishes treasure.
Magic bread furnishes treasure.
Consecrated bread brings wealth.
Magic stone furnishes wealth.
Magic stone turns everything to gold.
Magic water furnishes treasure.
Magic fountain produces gold.
Rubies found in whirlpool in sea.
Miscellaneous objects furnish treasure.
Magic flower pot bears plants with gold letters and leaves.
Magic doll furnishes treasure.
Shower of gems from magic anvil.
Magic hail on lake causes treasure to spring from it.
Worshipped sex organ of horse provides money, etc.
Magic book furnishes wealth.
Wealth from drawing cow's feet over money box.
Treasure from magic stick.
Silver leaps into wine pitcher.
Magic ashes produce jewelry.
Ashes from burned snake-woman's body will turn anything into gold.
Magic sheepskin, shaken inside and outside shed, showers gold and silver.
Magic quilt: gold coins shake out of it.
Treasure falls from stone lion's mouth.
Statue of eagle gives wealth.
Magic tortoise shell produces pearls.
Magic ship furnishes treasure.
Clouds fetch previous stones.
Charm makes treasure rain from sky.
Magic wishing-object.
Magic object causes food and drink to be furnished.
Magic wishing-stone.
Magic wishing-tree.
Magic wishing-laurel.
Magic wishing-calabash.
Magic wishing-apple.
Magic wishing-nut.
Magic ass's head fulfills wishes.
Magic wishing-eggs.
Magic wishing-cloth.
Magic wishing-smock.
Magic wishing-cloak (mantle).
Magic wishing-belt.
Magic wishing-hat.
Magic wishing-cap.
Magic wishing-ring.
Magic wishing-lamp.
Magic wishing-lantern.
Magic wishing-cup.
Magic wishing-pot.
Magic wishing-box.
Magic wishing-saddle.
Magic wishing-drum.
Magic wishing-pipe.
Magic wishing-wand.
Magic wishing-rod.
Magic wishing-book.
Magic wishing-bag.
Magic coin fulfills wishes.
Magic wishing-ball.
Magic wishing-bell.
Magic wishing-whip.
Magic wishing-horn.
Magic wishing-trumpet.
Magic wishing-bow.
Magic wishing-well.
Magic wishing hair.
Magic wishing ivory tusk.
Magic wishing mirror.
Magic wishing bracelet.
Magic wishing-powder.
Magic wishing conch shell.
Magic wishing-jewel.
Magic wishing-boat.
Magic wishing-quilt.
Magic lake: whoever dies in it will have his desires fulfilled in future birth.
Magic wishing-hammer.
Magic iron measure for wishing.
Magic rubber card for wishing.
Moon provides by magic.
Provisions received from magic object.
Provisions received from magic tree.
Leaves turn into fish to feed family.
Supplies received from magic box.
Horn of plenty (cornucopia.) Supplies from toe of old woman.
Supplies from magic table.
Supplies from bull's belly.
Supplies from bull's dung.
Supplies from magic ashes.
Supplies from magic skin worn by man.
Food and drink from magic object.
Food or drink received directly from magic object.
Fountain miraculously supports life.
Stone provides food.
Man strikes stone: wine flows.
Rock produces wine.
Magic pebble provides food.
Magic rock supplies water.
Magic tree supplies food.
Magic lime tree distills sustenance for saint.
Food-providing leaf.
Vegetable supporting life without other food.
Magic palace supplies food and drink.
Magic kitchen supplies food and drink.
Magic table supplies food and drink.
Magic table-cloth supplies food and drink.
Magic pot supplies food and drink.
Magic coffee-pot supplies drink.
Magic cauldron supplies food.
Magic kettle (cauldron) turns stones to excellent food.
Magic kettle supplies food.
Food-providing frying pan.
Magic pitcher supplies drink.
Magic cup supplies drink.
Magic food-providing cup.
Magic tankard supplies drink.
Magic glass supplies drink.
Magic bottle supplies drink.
Magic barrel supplies drink.
Magic food-basket (vessel) supplies food.
Magic plate supplies food.
Magic chest supplies food.
Magic bag (sack) supplies food.
Man compels food to enter magic sack.
Saint's inexhaustible sack of wheat.
Magic basket supplies food.
Part of animal's body supplies food or drink.
Magic drinking horn supplies drink.
Jawbone of ass supplies water.
Food and drink from elk's ears.
Body of tortoise provides food.
Magic urn supplies drink.
Magic egg supplies food.
Magic well supplies food.
Magic stump supplies drink.
Magic sheepskin supplies food.
Magic ashes produce food.
Magic food-providing sticks.
Magic fiddle provides food.
Magic bowl furnishes food.
Part of human body furnishes food.
Magic finger provides food.
Stream flows from man's head.
Water flows from axe.
Magic apple satisfies hunger.
Magic object causes food and drink to be furnished.
Magic wishing-girdle supplies food.
Magic wishing-drum supplies food.
Magic wishing-pipe supplies game.
Charm prepares feast.
Magic song produces food.
Magic pumpkin yields year's supply of rice.
Magic calabash causes food to be furnished.
Magic musical pipe causes food to fall from sky.
Magic mallet produces provisions.
Magic rod provides water.
Magic knife stuck in tree causes wine to flow.
Magic object furnishes clothes.
Magic wand furnishes clothes.
Rubbing charm provides garments.
Magic object furnishes soldiers.
Magic soldier-producing horn.
Magic soldier-producing trumpet.
Magic soldier-producing pipe.
Magic soldier-producing hat.
Magic hair produces soldiers.
Magic soldier-producing calabash.
Magic soldier-producing egg.
Magic object furnishes slaves (subjects).
Magic calabash furnishes slaves.
Magic egg furnishes slaves (subjects for chief or king, etc.).
Magic basket (box) furnishes slaves.
Magic object furnishes livestock (oxen, horses, etc.).
Magic calabash furnishes livestock.
Magic ring furnishes livestock.
Magic egg furnishes livestock.
Magic basket (box) furnishes livestock.
Magic object provides light.
Saint's hand illumines darkness.
magic light illuminates bottom of lake.
Magic object furnishes warmth.
Magic chicken wing keeps one warm in cold weather.
Magic object provides fire.
Magic object produces oil.
Oil comes out of sacred white stone.
Magic pumpkin holds streams of oil.
Magic object produces building.
Palace arises from bull's legs buried in soil.
Magic bag builds palaces of gold and gems.
Magic stick: when planted in ground, palace rises.
Magic object makes road.
Magic shuttle makes road.
Reading from magic book causes road to appear.
Magic object makes carpet.
Magic shuttle makes carpet.
Magic object makes rivers and lakes.
Magic stone makes rivers and lakes.
Magic object makes plants grow.
Magic ring makes seaweeds grow.
Consecrated bread makes vegetables grow.
Magic spell makes tree grow.
Magic object provides wood.
Magic book controls disease.
Magic object heals diseases.
Magic healing fountain.
Magic (healing) well dug by saint.
The water of spring which a saint caused to flow has curative powers.
Sacred healing stone.
Magic healing coal.
Magic healing ashes.
Magic healing soot.
Magic healing lime.
Magic tree heals.
Magic healing hazel tree.
Magic healing plant.
Magic healing grass.
Magic healing leaves.
Magic healing herb.
Magic healing fruit.
Magic healing apple.
Ghoulish magic object cures disease.
Corpse's hand as remedy.
Churchyard mould as remedy.
Consecrated clay as remedy.
Parts or products of human body cure disease.
Powdered skull as remedy.
Magic head (of saint) heals diseases.
Magic healing spittle.
Healing power of saint's spittle.
Magic healing blood.
Blood of executed man as remedy.
Blood of saint as cure.
Dragon's heart-blood as remedy.
Bath in blood of king as remedy.
Magic amulet cures disease.
Magic jewel cures disease.
Magic sapphire cures disease.
Magic pearls cure disease.
Sacred objects cure disease.
Consecrated bread as cure.
Consecrated wine as magic cure.
Wine blessed by saint or received from the saint's hand cures various ills.
Money from offertory as cure.
Consecrated grain as remedy.
Consecrated ale as magic cure.
Lime used in building church as cure.
Magic healing drink.
Magic statue cures disease.
Magic statue of brazen serpent cures disease.
Saint's possessions cure disease.
Saint's girdle as magic cure.
Saint's cowl as magic cure.
Saint's bell cures disease.
Saint's bachall as remedy.
Saint's mallet cures disease.
Magic healing ring.
Consecrated healing ring.
Ring made of coffin-hinge as remedy.
Magic healing bottle.
Magic weapon cures disease.
Magic sword cures disease.
Magic healing water.
Dew from saint's grave as cure.
Water which had contact with the tombs of holy men proved curative.
Water from saint's washing as remedy.
Baptismal water as remedy.
Holy water as remedy.
Magic healing lake.
Water from bullaun (hollowed-out stone) as remedy.
Magic healing river.
Magic healing salve.
Magic healing salve restores severed feet.
Magic healing oil from saints (sacred places).
Magic healing powder.
Magic healing wand.
Magic healing book.
Magic healing charm (spell).
Magic healing song.
Magic garment as remedy.
Fragments of gibbet as cure.
Magic musical instrument as cure for disease.
Magic healing harp.
Magic healing bell.
Earth as remedy.
Magic healing honey.
Magic healing banquet.
Gold used in medicine.
Magic comb as cure.
Parts or products of animal cure disease.
Magic healing milk.
Cures by the milk of the mothers of saints.
Magic healing milk of lioness.
Flesh of white cow with red ears as only cure for mysterious illness.
Magic animal dung.
Magic bird dung cures.
Hide of sheep or goat as cure.
Fish head cures disease.
Magic writings heal.
Magic healing handkerchief.
Sweat used in medicine.
Urine used in medicine.
M. healing mountain.
Magic object wards off disease.
Saint's bell wards off disease.
Charm against sickness.
Magic picture prevents disease.
Magic circle prevents disease.
Eating magic pig prevents disease.
Magic girdle prevents disease.
Magic tree bears prophylactic fruit.
Snake liver prevents disease.
Magic object transfers disease to another person or thing.
Charm shifts diseases to another person.
Saint causes pain of sick man to be transferred to himself.
Disease transferred to saint's bell.
Magic object causes disease.
Magic drink causes disease.
Magic breath causes disease.
Saint's breath makes men drunk.
Saint's breath causes death.
Magic pond causes disease.
Magic tank causes disease.
Ray of sunlight causes leprosy.
Gloves thrown after ship cause disease.
Ashes cause leprosy.
Magic bed causes disease.
Magic object assists woman in childbearing.
Charms prevent barrenness or miscarriage.
Mistletoe used by druids to prevent barrenness.
Charms make childbirth easy.
Magic plant makes childbirth easy.
Magic fruit from Yggdrasil placed in fire makes childbirth easy.
Magic belt assists in childbirth.
Amulet assists in childbearing.
Leaves assist in childbearing.
Medicine causes woman to bear twins.
Magic object cures particular diseases.
Magic object cures headache.
Charm for headache.
Magic object cures toothache.
Dead man's tooth as cure for toothache.
Charm for toothache.
Magic object cures scrofula.
Hangman's noose cures scrofula.
Magic object cures fever.
Charm for fever.
Magic object cures leprosy.
Magic potion cures leprosy.
Blood as cure for leprosy.
Blood of children (innocent maidens) as cure for leprosy.
Touching magic boat with exposed child in it cures leprosy.
Magic object cures mange.
Bath in blood of king as cure for mange.
Magic object cures urinary disease.
Charm for urinary disease.
Magic object cures earache.
Magic locust egg cures earache.
Magic object cures boils (tumors).
Magic-dog brain cures boils.
Magic snail body cures boils.
Magic figs cure boils.
Viper body cures skin disease.
Magic cure for cancer.
Magic excrement as cure for cancer.
Magic water cures stomach trouble.
Magic object heals wound.
Magic song heals wound.
Magic pigskin heals wounds.
Charm for wounds.
Charm for burns or scalds.
Magic balm heals wounds.
Magic lantern heals wounds.
Magic jewel heals wounds.
Magic well heals (wounds).
Magic pool of milk heals wounds.
Magic goblet heals wounds.
Magic hand heals wounds.
Magic plant heals wounds.
Grass and flowers which grew upon a saint's grave are good for cures.
Wounds healed by eating fruit of magic tree.
Magic earth heals wounds.
Earth receives curative powers from contact with saint.
Magic potion heals wounds.
Wound healed by wounding weapon.
Wounds caused by sword can only be healed by a certain stone.
Wound healed with own blood.
Wound healed by water from place wounded man's heel dragged.
Magic gloves heal wound.
Magic object stanches blood.
Charm stanches blood.
Amulet cures nosebleed.
Magic object cures blindness.
Herbs restore sight.
Spittle restores sight.
Magic feather restores sight.
Magic honey restores sight.
Magic water restores sight.
Bird's tears restore sight.
Dew restores sight.
Dew falling on St. John's Night restores sight.
Magic fountain restores sight.
Holy spring restores sight.
Magic coconut water restores sight.
Magic ointment restores sight.
Magic wand restores sight.
Blood restores sight.
Blood from Christ's wounds restores sight.
Magic flower restores sight.
Saint's breath restores sight.
Hero's breath restores sight.
Charm for diseased eye.
Charm for removing object from eye.
Man who touches book of St. Oswin's life is cured of blindness.
Animal excreta cures blindness.
Animal liver cures blindness.
Liver of shining goat heals blindness of raja.
Magic cotton-wool restores sight.
Magic statue (when kissed) restores sight.
Magic stone restores sight.
Tree restores sight.
Coconut shoots restore sight.
Gall of slain giant restores sight.
Magic object cures deafness.
Spittle restores hearing.
Magic object restores speech.
Magic ring restores speech.
Saint's gospel-book restores speech.
Saint's bell restores speech.
Saint's breath restores speech.
Magic cake restores speech.
Saint's blood restores speech.
Magic harp restores speech.
Magic gold taken from hill restores speech when it is laid under the tongue of dumb person.
Magic object restores reason.
Saint's bell restores reason.
Music restores reason.
Jackal-tooth as cure for madness.
Soup made of black dog's head cures madness.
Magic object cures drunkenness.
Magic carpet cures drunkenness.
Magic object cures ulcers.
Magic ointment cures ulcers.
Charm removes thorn.
Magic object relieves pain.
Magic music relieves pain.
Magic girdle relieves pain.
Charm for pain.
Magic antidote for poison.
Remedies for poison.
Charms as antidote for poison.
Charms as antidote for snakebite.
Bath in milk of white, hornless cows as antidote for poison.
Antidote for snakebite.
Maid cuts off pap to heal man's serpent wound.
Snake stone applied to snakebite absorbs poison.
Hind's horns as antidote for snakebite.
Body of gnat as antidote for snakebite.
Sight of brass serpent as antidote for snakebite.
Magic potion mixed with brains of deceitful person as cure for snakebite.
Remedy for mad dog bite.
Stone as antidote for mad dog bite.
Charms against elfshot.
Cure for insect's sting.
Body of housefly as remedy for hornet sting.
Magic object restores bodily members.
Magic drink restores arms.
Root restores amputated hands and feet.
Hero's breath returns head to headless horseman.
Magic object heals broken bone.
Magic plant heals broken bone.
Magic object controls disease--miscellaneous.
Magic object restores strength.
Magic bowl restores strength.
Magic transportation by bough.
Transportation by stretching and swaying tree.
Transportation by hollow tree.
Magic transportation by cloud.
Magic transportation by hairs.
Magic transportation by golden apple.
Magic transportation by animal skin.
Magic transportation by skin of fish.
Magic transportation by dog skin.
Magic transportation by seal skin.
Magic transportation by horse skin.
Magic transportation by cloak (cape).
Magic transportation by gold uniform.
Magic transportation by saber.
Magic transportation by sword.
Magic transportation by garter.
Magic transportation by shoes.
Magic transportation by sandals.
Magic transportation by cap (hat).
Magic transportation by ring.
Magic transportation by arrow.
Transportation in magic carriage.
Transportation in magic ship.
Sailing against a contrary wind, current and tide.
Magic transportation by chair.
Magic transportation by sofa.
Magic transportation on flying bedstead.
Transportation on magic couch.
Magic transportation by hammock.
Transportation on magic swing.
Transportation in magic palanquin.
Magic transportation by carpet.
Transportation by magic throne.
Transportation by magic platform.
Transportation by magic pitcher.
Transportation by magic goblet.
Transportation by magic box.
Transportation by magic bag.
Transportation by putting magic ointment on feet.
Magic transportation by means of wand.
Magic transportation by club.
Magic transportation in whirlwind.
Transportation by magic jewel.
Transportation by magic pearl.
Magic transportation on piece of rock.
Magic transportation by rope.
Magic transportation on antlers.
Magic transportation on musical bow.
Transportation by means of necklace.
Magic transportation by feather-dress.
Transportation by magic stone.
Magic journey by reading book.
Miraculous speed from magic object.
Seven-league boots.
Sandals with magic speed.
Ship with miraculous speed.
Ship as swift as a bird.
Sleigh as swift as thought.
Carriage as swift as thought.
Jewel gives miraculous speed.
Turquoise gives miraculous speed.
Magic self-moving vehicle.
Self-propelling wagon.
Self-propelling (ship) boat.
Automatic oar.
Boat propelled by magic awl.
Boat propelled by magic wand.
Boat obeys master's will.
Boat guides self.
Boat guided by magic songs.
Boat guided by magic sea-charm.
Self-guiding rudderless boat.
Magic boat is rowed by two wooden figures as soon as it is put on water.
Bundle of wood magically acts as riding horse.
Magic object enables person to cross water.
Magic object permits man to walk on water.
Medicine on feet permits man to walk on water.
Saint's bachall permits him to walk on sea.
Saint casts staffs to distant island.
Saint spreads his cloak (or other clothes) upon the water and rides to his desired destination.
Sand permits man to walk on water.
Clothes carry owner over water.
Boots carry owner on sea.
Belt carries owner over water.
Magic stone serves as boat.
Stone canoe.
Saint's bell carried on floating stone.
Island canoe.
River crossed by means of charm.
River crossed by means of magic stone.
Magic sod serves as boat.
Leaf serves as boat.
Leaf serves as boat for saint.
Magic wind catches hero up and transports him across immense sea.
Magic staff comes to one over water.
Magic betelnut comes to one over water.
Magic handaxe comes to one over water.
Magic submarine ship (boat).
Magic hood enables person to pass under water.
Magic object thrown ahead carries owner with it.
Magic arrow flight.
Magic ball flight.
Magic pistol forces one to run behind the ball.
Magic object gives power of flying.
Mustard seeds give power of flying.
Magic pill gives power of flying.
Magic sword gives power of flying.
Magic stone under tongue gives power of flying.
Witch flies with aid of magic cap or hood.
Witch flies with aid of magic stick.
Witch flies with aid of magic juice.
Witch flies with aid of word charm.
Magic flying by means of magic fiddle.
Palmetto leaves give power of flying.
Gem gives power of flying.
Magic object bears person aloft.
Magic flying skin.
Magic mouse-skin bears person aloft.
Magic breeches bear person aloft.
Magic shoes bear person aloft.
Special shoes enable hero to climb a stone pillar.
Magic sandals bear person aloft.
Magic chariot bears person aloft.
Magic robe bears person aloft.
Magic tree bears person through air.
Magic head-dress bears person aloft.
Magic leaf bears person aloft.
Magic fan bears person aloft.
Magic journey in flying boat.
Magic sword carries person through air.
Magic brick bears person to moon.
Magic amphibian vehicle.
Magic land and water vehicle.
Magic land and water ship.
Magic land and water chariot.
Vehicle travels above and below ground.
Box which travels above or below ground.
Miscellaneous forms of magic transportation.
Magic elevator.
Magic belt carries tree away.
Magic staves enable man to gain precipitous height.
Magic bag controls storm, mist, darkness, etc.
Magic white, red and yellow stone causes hail, sunshine or fire, according to which side is scratched.
Magic stone controls water.
Magic object controls storms.
Charms control storms.
Magic song controls storm.
Magic object raises storm.
Magic spittle causes storm.
Magic song causes storm.
Magic fountain causes storm (rain).
Shirt laid upon altar raises storm.
Tempest box raises storm.
Magic writings raise storm.
Magic calabash holding bones raises storm.
Singing magic hymn raises storm.
Magic object draws storm away.
Magic pestle draws storm away.
Magic pearl draws storm away.
Magic object controls rain.
Magic object produces rain.
Magic stone produces rain.
Magic spittle controls rain.
Magic hat brings flood.
Magic fan produces rain.
Magic song brings rain.
Oil poured in left ear of black dog brings rain.
Blood and liver of black dog sacrificed to bring rain.
Magic object causes drought.
Sacred weapon thrown into sky causes drought.
Magic object causes streams to dry up.
Magic medicine causes streams to dry up.
Reading book causes river to dry up.
Branch which dries up water in great river so person can cross.
Magic spell dries up lake.
Not a drop of water will remain in tank no matter how hard laborers work.
Magic wand keeps outdoor sleeping place dry.
Magic object controls wind.
Fountain insures favorable wind when drained.
Magic stone causes favorable wind.
Magic fan produces wind.
Magic sword produces wind.
Magic medicine produces wind.
Wind carried in mantle.
Magic calabash (gourd) controls winds.
Magic object controls earthquakes.
Magic spell controls earthquake.
Magic object controls sea.
Magic runes control sea.
Magic object controls tides.
Magic jewel controls tides.
Magic object controls heavenly bodies.
Magic object controls sun.
Hat which turns the sun.
Magic spell controls sun.
Magic spell darkens sun.
Magic umbrella makes sun stand still.
Magic object reverses gravitation.
Magic root floats against the current.
Magic flower thrown into lake causes waters to follow in the footsteps of the one who throws it in.
Magic object lifts heavy object from river bottom.
Magic object controls weather.
Amulet has control over weather.
Magic object assures good weather.
Magic stalk assures good weather.
Magic object controls elements: miscellaneous.
Magic arrow shakes heavens.
Saint's girdle causes tree to fall in right direction.
Magic object controls river (lake).
Saint's bachall drives back flooding river.
Saint's bachall leads stream through mountain (or up hill.) Magic trousers make river boil.
Magic gem causes river waters to recede.
Fish bone holds back water in river.
Ring of hay thrown into empty lake fills it up with water.
Written charm causes river to flow quietly.
Spear stuck in river bed stops water.
Saint's bachall brings down mountain on heads of enemies.
Magic staff draws water from stone.
Rock beaten by sword provides water.
Saint's veil quells volcano.
Murdered man's head will cause earth to burn up or sea to boil: must be carried about.
Magic song drives back flooding sea.
Magic rod causes all waters to turn to blood.
Waves answer roar of magic shield.
Magic beads break ice jam.
Waters magically divide and close.
Water becomes shallow so man is able to cross the river.
Magic salt causes waters to divide.
Magic rod causes waters to divide and close.
Magic root causes waters to divide and close.
Magic powder causes waters to divide.
Saint's bachall causes sea to divide.
Magic stick causes waters to divide.
Magic diamond on ogre's waist opens passage in tank by its reflection on water.
Diamond in snake king's forehead in hero's pocket opens lake waters to reveal a pathway to underground palace.
Magic brick causes waters to divide.
Magic formula causes sea to open up.
Mountains or rocks open and close.
Door opens in mountain.
Mountain opens at blow of divining rod.
Mountain opens to magic formula (Open Sesame).
Mountain pass magically closes.
Mountain opens and lets ship on wheels out, permitting magician's escape.
Cave opens and hides fugitives.
Gate or wall opens and closes, letting saint through.
Mountain opens and furnishes stones for church.
Hill opens and closes to let fugitives pass.
When enchanted deer touches rock with her muzzle it flies asunder and reveals entrance to cave.
Magic soot causes mountain to open.
Magic stone opens treasure mountain.
Magic key opens treasure mountain.
Symplegades.
Magic forest opens and closes for hero to pass.
Woods opens and hides fugitive.
Underground passage magically opens.
Magic wand opens underground passage.
Magic powder causes earth to open up.
Magic formula causes silver to hide itself in mountain.
Fairy music causes earth to open (burst).
Self-opening tree-trunk.
Magic formula causes tree to open.
Tree opens its trunk to give shelter to abandoned girls.
Magic charm causes door to open.
Door (lock) magically opens (for saint).
Magic herb causes door to open.
Magic rod causes door to open.
Magic diamond provides ingress to subterranean palace.
Gate of temple opens and shuts by magic.
Magic object confers miraculous powers (luck).
Magic object brings luck.
Magic bird-heart (when eaten) brings man to kingship.
Bird (when eaten) brings man to kingship.
Magic fish (when eaten) brings man to kingship.
Snake's head (when eaten) brings man to kingship.
Magic ring brings good luck.
Horseshoe brings good luck.
Magic medicine brings success.
Four-leaf clover brings good luck.
Food left on magic stone brings good luck thereafter.
Magic stone brings good luck.
Runes bring luck.
Lucky places for grave.
Jewel brings good luck.
Magic song brings luck.
Magic object confers miraculous powers.
Magic bird (when eaten) gives power of excreting jewels.
Magic treasure gives miraculous powers.
Magic power in chain.
Charm gives invisibility and power of moving everywhere.
Magic object removes obstacles.
Magic staff destroys obstacles.
Hair from fox's tail opens all doors.
Magic horn blows down wall.
Magic needle makes everything fall to pieces.
Hero crosses impassable plain in path of magic object.
Holy water destroys veil over well.
Magic root snaps bars of iron in two.
Magic object controls condition of soil.
Magic springs fertilize or sterilize earth.
Magic object makes soil fertile.
Charms make soil fertile.
Magic song makes barren land fruitful.
Sign of the cross makes barren land fruitful.
Saint's bell starts crops growing.
Blood makes soil fertile.
Magic branch when used as a threshing pole produces marvelous harvest of rice.
Magic object makes soil sterile.
Magic chain renders orchard barren.
Blood makes tree (and surroundings) poisonous.
Well (river) polluted by blood shed in battle.
Snake's venom poisons tree.
Magic poem (satire) makes land sterile.
Magic spell destroys crops.
Magic object splits or cuts things.
Magic pebble splits wood.
Saint's spittle splits rocks.
Saint's bachall splits rock, cuts stone, and cleaves ground.
Magic object cuts down trees.
Magic spear-head cuts down trees.
Magic hair cuts down iron tree.
Magic cranberry opens wedge and frees hero.
Magic sword cuts stone and fells trees.
Magic weapon (sword, axe) cuts hair (on water, in wind).
Magic object causes things to seek their proper place.
Magic feather causes chips from tree to return as cut.
Magic song causes chips from tree to return.
Magic lyre charms stones into their place in building.
Magic song causes plowed ground to become unplowed.
Saint's breath restores shattered vessel.
Magic object controls fire.
Magic object sets things afire.
Magic arrow sets fire to whatever it hits.
Magic fire-moccasins.
Magic sword causes fire and smoke.
Saint's breath kindles lamps.
Saint's breath kindles coals.
Saint's (man's) breath makes icicles (snow, water) burn.
Shower of fire from magic anvil.
Magic dog's breath burns dead bodies.
Holy water procures fire or light.
Magic object quenches fire.
Saint's bachall quenches fire.
Magic fan quenches fire.
Magic song quenches fire.
Runes quench fire (D1266.
Ring makes boiling water cold.
Salamander's blood quenches fire.
Magic girdle produces stream of water to quench fire.
Magic object produces fountain.
Saint's blood produces fountain.
Saint's tears produce fountain.
Water poured from saint's bell produces fountain.
Saint's bachall produces fountain.
Saint's crozier produces fountain.
Stroke of staff brings water from rock.
Fountain produced from drop of water.
Sign of cross brings water from rock.
Ring brings forth water from dry soil.
Magic object revivifies trees.
Magic ashes revivify trees.
Presence of a person revivifies trees.
Reading from a book makes fallen tree stand up.
Magic smoke carries power of saint.
Charms to make butter come.
Much butter made from little milk by power of saint.
Line drawn by saint's bachall separates calves from their mothers.
Magic object does not awaken sleepers.
Hand-of-glory does not awaken sleepers.
Magic object causes tree to spring up.
Magic song causes tree to rise to sky.
Charm renders magic efficacious.
Charm renders medicinal herbs efficacious.
Charm renders amulet efficacious.
Tasks performed by use of magic object.
Climbing into air on magic rope.
Magic carving knife serves twenty-four men at meat simultaneously.
Magic object induces dreams.
Charm induces dreams.
Magic object saves corpse from corruption.
Magic pill saves corpse from corruption.
Magic plant saves cut-off limbs from corruption.
Magic object relieves from plague.
Magic image of animal relieves from plague (of that animal).
Prayer to Virgin protects against plague.
Incense relieves from plague.
Magic object expels person from land.
Magic amulet expels person from land.
Magic object assures going to heaven.
Magic brain assures heaven for man who dies upon it.
Magic cowhide assures heaven for man who dies upon it.
Magic hymn assures heaven for person who sings it.
Magic spell causes vessel to burst.
Magic object heats or cools water.
Magic ring cools boiling water.
Magic object vitalizes.
Liver of deer vitalizes.
Vivification by hitting with bone.
Magic dust vitalizes seeds and they become insects.
God's blood vitalizes image.
Bee in its belly vitalizes tiger.
Blood of twelve buffaloes vitalizes tiger.
Girl's blood vitalizes axe and it becomes a tiger.
Magic whistle gives life to cockroach.
Magic object provides beautiful bride for hero.
Image of love grants man wife.
Magic object performs services--miscellaneous.
Pillars dance when ogre plays guitar.
Air made fragrant with odors of flowers by spell.
Magic object multiplies objects.
Magic egg multiplies objects.
Magic object produces house.
Magic egg produces house.
Magic charm uproots mandrake.
Magic dew destroys enemy's books.
Object labors automatically.
Magic calabash cooks and cares for child.
Self-growing and self-gathering corn.
Magic hat works independently.
Automatic weapon.
Automatic sword.
Automatic spear.
Spear rushes out of joking raja's hand and pierces his visitor's chest; it is hungry for blood and has had no food for twelve years.
Automatic cudgel.
Stick turns into automatic magic sword.
Automatic hammer kills enemy.
Oven heats without fire.
Lamp (fire) lights itself.
Razor whets itself.
Household articles act at command.
Automatic broom.
Self-cooking vessel.
Self-cooking pot.
Magic cauldron boils a year.
Magic cauldron boils only enough of its contents to satisfy immediate need.
Self-boiling kettle.
Self-sewing needle.
Self-cutting shears.
Magic shears clip garments from air.
Self-tying thread.
Self-weaving threads.
Self-fastening line.
Self-chopping axe.
Magic axe cuts thousands of trees at a single blow.
Magic adze cuts down tree.
Magic axe cuts off enemy's head.
Automatic shovel.
Self-digging spade.
Self-digging hoe.
Automatic whip.
Self-playing musical instruments.
Magic musical instrument reproduces songs sung in heaven.
Self-ringing bell.
Cleric's tongueless bell rings.
Sounding bell silenced by a gesture by a saint.
Self-playing violin.
Self-beating drum.
Fetish-medicine automatically punishes.
Self-grinding millstone.
Self-grinding mill.
Self-grinding salt-mill.
Fetish clears forest.
Ale serves itself.
Automatic fire tongs.
Self-cooking food.
Self-cooking fowls.
Self-cooking fish.
Self-pouring horn.
Magic thorns make road through marsh.
Self-rocking chair.
Self-playing game-board.
Automatic arrows.
Magic towel wipes person.
Letter delivers self.
Letter from captive prince asking for help flies through the air to addressee.
Chariot collects flowers by itself.
Self-serving spoon.
Magic water bottle brings water.
Self-going shoes.
Self-opening door.
Self-returning magic object.
Stones, being removed, return to their places.
Felled tree raises itself again.
Fallen trees upraised at saint's request.
Chips from tree return to their places as cut.
Self-returning robe.
Self-returning moccasins.
Self-returning bangle.
Self-returning spear.
Self-returning spear-head.
Self-returning wheel.
Saint's bell when stolen miraculously returns.
Self-returning bell.
Stolen bell refuses to make a sound.
Saint's bachall when lost returns.
Self-returning magic book.
Self-returning magic coin.
Self-returning head.
Self-returning body.
Self-returning cruet.
Self-returning magic apple.
Self-returning hammer.
Arrow shot at bull returns to shooter.
Magic object when sold always returns to original owner.
Magic ring when sold returns to original owner.
Magic object given away returns to giver.
Equipment of slain hunter returns alone.
Magic thieving object.
Magic thieving pot.
Magic bag sucks milk from cows.
Magic thieving glove.
Magic objects automatically keep out of reach.
Automatic magic objects--miscellaneous.
Drum flies about room.
Self-generated flame.
Magic powder makes objects speak what owner wants them to.
Speaking sink-hole.
Speaking tree.
Tree asks to be shaken.
Speaking oak.
Speaking bush.
Speaking plant.
Speaking gourd.
Speaking bean.
Speaking pouka-herb.
Speaking egg-plant.
Speaking flower.
Speaking lotus flower.
Speaking head.
Magic speaking tongue.
Speaking privates.
Speaking vulva.
Mentula loquens.
Speaking buttocks.
Speaking excrements.
Speaking loin of goat meat.
Speaking ring.
Speaking weapon.
Speaking sword.
Sword shrieks when it feels the bone.
Speaking arrow.
Speaking spear.
Speaking fruit.
Speaking grapes.
Speaking bananas.
Speaking fig.
Speaking ship.
Speaking stove.
Speaking dish.
Speaking kettle.
Speaking jar.
Speaking implement.
Speaking hoe.
Speaking axe.
Speaking hammer.
Speaking bell.
Church bell speaks.
Saint's bell speaks.
Blood speaks.
Speaking blood drops.
Speaking bed.
Legs of bedstead talk.
Speaking rock (stone).
Earth speaks.
Speaking island.
Speaking crozier.
Speaking image.
Image of the Virgin Mary speaks.
Speaking idol.
Speaking nut.
Speaking muirlan (ball).
Speaking armor.
Magic shield roars.
Helmet shrieks.
Magic drinking horn with a man's head speaks.
Speaking clothes.
Speaking cloak.
Speaking hat.
Speaking jewel.
Speaking necklace.
Voice issues from ruby.
Diamond speaks from inside statue.
Speaking ball of thread.
Speaking eggs.
Speaking timber.
Speaking house-post.
Speaking food.
Speaking porridge.
Speaking bread.
Transformed bird reveals its identity by speaking out.
Speaking cliffs (Cf.
Speaking musical instrument.
Fiddle made from wood secret has been confided to reveals it.
Speaking flute.
Speaking Jew's harp.
Speaking river.
Speaking water.
Magic object answers for fugitive.
Magic rosebush answers for fugitives.
Magic hair answers for fugitive.
Magic cow-dung answers for fugitive.
Magic beans answer for fugitive.
Magic spittle impersonates fugitives.
Magic blood-drops impersonate fugitive.
Magic clothes answer for fugitive.
Magic cakes answer for fugitive.
Magic household articles answer for fugitive.
Magic awl answers for fugitive.
Magic doll answers for fugitive.
Magic stick of wood answers for fugitive.
Magic log answers for fugitive.
Magic louse answers for fugitive.
Magic animals.
Magic apple answers for fugitives.
Magic echo answers for fugitive.
Magic writings on stone cause corpse to answer for absent man.
Magic bone answers for fugitive.
Magic buckle answers for fugitive.
Tell-tale magic objects.
Magic objects betray fugitive.
Horns call out when girl tries to escape.
Banana tree tells who cut its branches.
Fetish betrays fugitive.
Magic object compels fugitive to betray himself.
Magic ring compels would-be fugitive to keep calling out, "Here I am".
Hiding place speaks and betrays hider.
Magic object tells where it is hidden.
Magic cloth tells where it is hidden.
Magic object raises alarm when stolen.
Magic shirt tells owner when it is stolen.
Magic harp gives alarm when it is stolen.
Magic object gives alarm when touched.
Singing tree when touched wakes master.
Arrows shake when master is disturbed.
Magic object helps overawe captor.
Magic fish talk so that ogre thinks hero has many brothers with him.
Magic singing object.
Singing tree.
Magic musical branch.
Singing apple.
Singing water.
Singing snowshoes.
Singing rice-pot.
Singing head.
Headless body sings.
Singing heavens and earth.
Magic laughing object.
Magic laughing stone.
Magic weeping object.
Magic weeping waters.
Magic weeping stone.
Magic weeping altar.
Weapons weep as warning to master.
Miscellaneous speaking objects.
Speaking beans rebuke wife for misdeed.
Eaten object speaks from inside person's body.
Eaten magic dog howls from eater's belly.
Eaten goat bleats from eater's stomach.
Fruits that laugh or cry.
Automatic doll.
Automatic gold-spinning doll.
Automatic singing doll.
Automatic statue of man.
Automatic statue of trumpeter.
Automatic statue of horseman.
Smith forges iron man, who helps him.
Statue of Virgin sews for suppliant.
Magic statue of archer.
Magic statue of archer put into action my picking up precious object from ground.
Magic statue of man labors for owner.
Magic statue of man fights for master.
Speaking statue of man.
Automatic statue of animal.
Automatic statue of horse.
Automatic hen and chickens of gold.
Silver cock, sitting on a flower, crows.
Deer of gold and jewels possessing life.
Magic journey on back of flying golden deer.
Automatic statue of lion.
Automatic figures on harp--birds, serpents, hounds.
Automatic metal (jewel) fish.
Plough of gold and yoke of gold and pair of bullocks used by hero tills as much land as lies within a village boundary in one day.
Automatic statue of dog.
Automatic brazen serpent.
Other automatic constructions.
Two automatic giants fight until separated.
Magic carpenter constructs bed and stool that can become big or small, luxurious or otherwise.
Image renders judgments.
Image indicates favor to suppliant.
Crucifix bows as sign of favor.
Image of Virgin bows to indicate favor.
Saint's image lets golden shoe (ring) fall as sign of favor to suppliant.
Image dresses self.
Image of Virgin veils and unveils itself.
Image bleeds.
Image of Christ bleeds from thrown stone.
Wounds of crucifix bleed.
Statue weeps.
Statue sheds tears of blood.
Image flies through air.
Artificial flying horse.
Dancing automata.
Instrument's ornamental figures climb down and run about as harper plays.
City populated by wooden automata.
Images of animals ridden (driven).
Images open and close eyes.
Image eats or drinks.
Idol drinks up milk.
Golem.
Automata: other motifs.
Automata as door-keepers.
Image of Virgin saves painter.
Images at church turn backs as mark of disfavor.
Statue laughs and reveals crime.
Calf of gold moves.
Carved image jumps at maker's command.
Object removes itself.
Fountain (well) removes itself.
Stones remove themselves.
Saint's flagstone follows him.
Mountain moved by prayer so as to make room for church.
Stone moves at cock-crow.
Stone moves at midnight.
Stones go down to stream to drink.
Stove runs over hill.
Forest cleared by magic.
Muirlan (ball) removes itself.
Branch leaps from hand to hand.
Severed head moves from place to place.
Self-rolling head.
Grave removes itself.
Magic cross removes itself.
Magic fire removes itself.
Sacred scroll returns to heaven.
Magic book removes itself.
Lake removes itself.
Lake is drunk dry.
Coffin moves itself.
Jewelry intended by groom for prospective bride strangely disappears and a slip of paper alone is left in box.
Ruby shatters into half-dozen pieces when it is acquired by greedy lapidary.
Lotus disappears whenever anyone tries to pluck it.
Bananas run and hide when stone is thrown at them.
Self-folding object.
Self-folding bridge prevents pursuit.
Object travels by itself.
Stick of fire comes to river bank of itself.
Rock travels.
Magic island moves about as owner wishes.
Magic pipe travels about.
Self-luminous objects.
Incandescent jewel.
Incandescent cup.
Magic castle shines from afar.
Incandescent sword.
Magic dazzling shield.
Self-luminous feather.
Self-luminous artificial boar.
Magic flaming arms.
Magic flaming spear.
Flaming spear must be cooled in noxious blood.
Magic flaming shield.
Magic flaming lance.
Magic flaming sword.
Well shines at night.
Man's body emits light.
Extraordinary flower; rays of golden light fall from it.
Magic dancing object.
Dancing apple.
Dancing water.
Dancing kettle.
Dancing stones.
Fountain magically dries up.
Water vanishes from water hole when man tries to drink.
Magic object bows before certain person.
Tree bends to certain person.
Tree bends only to heroine.
Tree (forest) bows down to holy person (saint).
Tree bows to help Virgin Mary in childbirth.
Twig of a tree bows down and releases a bag with relics when the man makes a promise.
Flower bends only to certain person.
Stones prostrate themselves before certain persons.
Miscellaneous automatic objects.
Magic object keeps falling down.
Magic elk's head keeps falling down.
Magic birds keep falling off perch.
Magic object comes at owner's call.
Harp comes at owner's call.
Stones for heating water heated automatically in other world.
Dung and wood burst into flames of their own accord.
Magic crystals automatically heat for cooking.
Objects rebel against their owners.
Magic wood stick makes noise at night.
Magic object obeys master alone.
Only master is able to bend bow.
Spear can be wielded by only one person.
Magic cudgel works only for master.
Magic cooking-pot obeys only master.
Inexhaustible pitcher stops pouring only at owner's command.
Dead beggar's stick will not stay still until back in beggar's service.
Oracular image refuses information except to hero.
Magic musical instrument plays only for owner.
Magic harp plays only for owner.
Magic wishing-drum works only for owner.
Magic flageolet stolen but loses its magic power.
Door will open only for hero.
Bonds cannot be loosed save by man who tied them.
Bonds can be loosed only by comrades of man who tied them.
Apple (or ball) containing man's soul can be split only by man's own sword.
Stolen gun works only for master.
Box can be opened only by right person.
Jewel responds to owner's voice.
Magic clock flies only at owner's command.
Inexhaustible object.
Magic object causes thing to become inexhaustible.
Inexhaustible food.
Miraculous increasing of small quantity of victuals or drinks to feed a great number of people.
Inexhaustible bread.
Cake magically increases.
Inexhaustible grain.
Inexhaustible rice.
Inexhaustible corn.
Inexhaustible wheat.
Ever-renewing cheese.
Inexhaustible chestnut.
Inexhaustible coconut.
Inexhaustible fruit.
Inexhaustible apple.
Magic banana skin always full of fruit.
Magic pill on which one feeds self for years.
Inexhaustible meat.
Inexhaustible pig.
Inexhaustible boar's flesh.
Inexhaustible sheep.
Inexhaustible fish.
Loaves and fishes, eaten at night, restored next morning through power of saint.
Inexhaustible drink.
Inexhaustible milk.
Cow with inexhaustible milk.
Goat with inexhaustible milk.
Magic gun is always loaded.
Inexhaustible vessel.
Magic goblet (cup) cannot be filled.
Inexhaustible barrel.
Inexhaustible measure (for meal or flour).
Inexhaustible pitcher.
Inexhaustible pitcher of milk.
Inexhaustible vase of bonbons.
Inexhaustible bowl.
Inexhaustible pot.
Inexhaustible food basket.
Inexhaustible food bag.
Inexhaustible rice-stores.
Inexhaustible meal sack.
Ever-burning lamp.
Unfading garlands.
Inexhaustible cloth.
Monkey cut in two by magic sword becomes two monkeys.
Inexhaustible fuel.
Inexhaustible firewood.
Ever-burning candle.
Mantle ever new.
Everlasting wine-odor.
Sheep with inexhaustible wool.
Inexhaustible well.
Inexhaustible spring.
Inexhaustible water-hole.
Lime (for building church) miraculously renewed by power of saint.
Inexhaustible horn.
Inexhaustible larder.
Inexhaustible human liver.
Inexhaustible sacrificial blood.
Infallible article.
Infallible weapon.
Infallible sword.
Sword causes a man's death every time it is drawn.
Unerring spear.
Gloves make spear-cast infallible.
Infallible sling.
Unerring bow.
Unerring arrow.
Unerring stone missile.
Infallible gun.
Magic mirror as infallible weapon.
Infallible dagger.
Infallible fish-hook.
Immovable object.
Magic immovability of saints (or their possessions).
Magic stone, hitting object, renders it immovable.
Stone (rock) refuses to be moved.
Immovable stone moved by saint.
Stone rolls off well-top after saint has prayed.
Immovable apples.
Indelible blood.
Indelible mark.
Indelible writing: the scraped word found written as before.
Immovable weapon.
Sword can be moved only by right person.
Sword can only be used by strong hero.
Arrow can be moved only by owner.
Lance imbedded in earth cannot be moved.
Magic spear cannot be pulled out of ground.
Dagger sticks to killer's hand.
Wagon refuses to move.
Chariot refuses to move.
Ship refuses to move.
Statues that cannot be removed.
Picture that cannot be removed in ship.
Sacred image impossible to remove from the spot.
Corpse in coffin refuses to be moved in wagon.
Corpse cannot be moved.
Bell refuses to be moved.
Bell sunk in sea can be raised only under certain conditions.
Paper in hand which none but king can remove.
Horse magically becomes immovable.
Woman can be lifted only by her lover.
Severed head cannot be moved from helmet.
Door stuck by witchcraft so that it cannot be opened.
Pot cannot be lifted.
Throne of goddess' idol is lifted only after goat has been sacrificed.
Invisible objects.
Invisible weapons.
Invisible arrows.
Incombustible objects.
Incombustible book.
Incombustible house (dwelling).
Untiring object.
Magic untiring breeches.
Grateful objects.
Objects repay kindness.
River grateful for being praised even when ugly.
Figs grateful for being praised even when ill-tasting.
Bitter water grateful for being praised.
Continually slamming doors grateful for being fastened.
Apple-tree grateful for being shaken.
Tree grateful for having boughs trimmed.
Tree grateful for having milk poured on roots.
River grateful for being given color.
Kinds of grateful objects.
Grateful stove.
Grateful carpets.
Grateful plant.
Services of grateful objects.
Grateful objects give advice.
Grateful objects help in choice of caskets.
Grateful objects give helper gifts.
Grateful objects help fugitive.
Magic object cannot be replaced.
Talking statue, when destroyed, cannot be replaced for thirty thousand years.
Magic object works by being stroked.
Magic ring works by being stroked.
Magic ring works by having sun's rays flash upon gem.
Magic lamp works by being stroked.
Diamond works by being pressed.
Magic object works in contrary fashions.
Wands of life and death.
Magic club kills and revives.
Ointment cures left cheek, not right.
Well of life and death.
Fountains poison and cure.
Well rises or sinks to indicate long or short life.
Magic tree gives money to good brother, poisonous animals to bad.
Summer and winter garden.
Food has taste of any dainty desired.
Drink has taste of any liquor desired.
Cow whose milk "tastes of honey and intoxicating wine and the satisfaction of good food."
Fruit has any taste desired.
Manna tastes bitter to gentiles.
Sword leaves no trace of blow behind it.
Magic garden grows at once.
Magic tree shoots forth leaf, flower, and fruit at once.
Magic acorns grow at once.
Million-fold rice which ripens in one night.
Garden that has not bloomed for twelve years does so when girl steps into it.
Magic tree continually in fruit.
Silver in chain increases in fire.
Unquenchable fire.
Magic fire burns for seven years.
Flaming shield unquenchable.
Self-burning bush.
Magic staff blossoms.
Tree grows from stick saint has used and thrown aside.
Iron blessed by saint incapable of wounding.
Garden wall that cannot be overleapt.
Mill refuses to work on Sunday.
Manna does not fall on Sabbath.
Mill refuses to work when saint is ill-treated.
Magic book, once used, compels person to do evil.
Charm incorrectly uttered will not work.
Magic jewel which outweighs many heavy objects in the scale.
Hearth cleaned by angel always free of ashes.
Dye blessed by saint colors animals, trees.
Interred body of saint performs signs and miracles.
Magic object departs and returns at formulistic command.
Object magically becomes heavy.
Marvelous post wears down at top instead of rotting from bottom.
Magic suspension of weight.
Huge load easily carried by a saint.
Cloak (and shirt) fit person of any size.
Magic rod swallows other rods.
Sword that cannot be magically dulled.
Magician.
Magician's apprentice.
Magician keeps magic power in tumor in back.
Means of becoming magician.
Biblical worthy as magician.
Solomon as master of magicians.
Esau as magician.
Baalam as master of magicians.
Virgil as magician.
Sun as magician.
Druid as magician.
Fairy as magician.
God or demigod as magician.
Odin as magician.
Aesculapius as magician.
King as magician.
Pharaoh as magician.
Strong man as magician.
Dark-haired people (with bowed nose) as magicians.
People of certain place as magicians.
Finns as magicians.
People of Gestrikland (Sweden) as magicians.
Egyptians as magicians.
People of Palmyra as magicians.
Amonites as magicians.
Amalekites as magicians.
Family of magicians.
Baalam's family as magicians.
People who come on ship with sickness accused as magicians.
Reptile-men cure snake bites, and can summon together snakes (or mice) and lead them away anywhere.
Soothsayer (diviner, oracle, etc.).
Astrologer-magician.
Soothsayer at work by various methods of divination.
Blind man as soothsayer.
Interpreter of dreams.
Magic power of hermit (saint, yogi).
Magic power of person without sin.
Magic power of chaste woman.
Chaste maiden at prayer vanishes from would-be ravisher's embrace.
Magic power of dying man's words.
Magic last wish at death becomes a reality (reincarnation).
Dying peasant summons greedy bishop for heavenly funeral; the bishop dies hearing the message.
Dying man commands cloud to bear message to man's wife.
Magic power of the infirm.
Magic power of the idiot.
Magic power of the lame.
Magic power of sterile woman.
Magic power of children.
Magic power of monster child.
Special location of magic powers.
Magic power contained in stick and water.
Possession of magic powers--miscellaneous.
Contest in magic.
Contest in magic between druid and saint.
Contest between druid and fairy personage.
Magic contest, magician and giant: magician would make a dog's tail crooked, the giant would straighten it--and so on, ad infinitum.
Contest between carpenter and son to race wooden horses they had both made.
Magic wisdom possessed by wild man.
Magic power of superhuman race.
Magic wisdom possessed by extraordinary companion.
Magic power of fairy.
Magic power of holy cross.
Magic power of mermaid.
Man has magic servants who plow for him; he swallows them each day and keeps them secret.
Magic power at certain time.
Magic power only at night.
Magic power at Passover.
Magic power only under certain conditions.
Magic power only when magician's feet touch ground.
Limited amount of magic in world.
Only ten measures of magic allotted to world.
Man given power of wishing.
Devil gives man power of wishing.
Man receives divine "possession" (becomes a diviner).
Magic power from magician.
Magic power from donning magician's clothes.
Magic power obtained secretly from magician's friends.
Magic power from devil.
Magic arts learned in hell.
Magic power from demon.
Spirit gives man the power of exorcising him out of anyone he possesses.
Magic power from rakshasi.
Magic power acquired by eating fish which have eaten dead magician's flesh.
Magician blows magic into disciples' ears.
Disciples drink magician's urine.
Magician's disciples eat magic iron.
Magician's disciples acquire magic powers by study.
Magic power from saint.
Magic power from prophet.
Magic power from fairy.
Magic power from Death.
Magic power obtained from angels.
Magic power from Angel of Death (Cf.
Magic power from deity.
Soothsaying learned from a god.
Magic power from celestial maiden.
Magic power from stone idol.
Magic power learned from giant (as foster-father).
Magic power from superhuman race.
Magic power received in dream.
Song learned in dream.
Marvels seen in dreams.
Fairy seen in dream.
All nature composed of food in vision.
(Dream of) rock-casting contest.
Magic power obtained by meditation.
Acts producing magic power.
Magic power by jumping into fire.
Magic power by crawling through ear of magic horse.
Magic power through ascetic practices.
Magic power by fasting.
Oracular twigs work only if man has fasted.
Magic power by sitting in certain seat.
Magic power from swooning.
Magic power by magic songs.
Magic powers from rubbing.
Magic power by rubbing talisman.
Magic powers from swallowing.
Magic powers from swallowing a straw.
Language acquired by swallowing its written characters.
Magic powers from swallowing magic drink.
Possession of magic knowledge and witchcraft from having eaten of father-of-man's corpse.
Magic power from great piety.
Magic power acquired by sacrificing.
Magic power inherited.
Magic power from mother.
Magic arts studied.
Acquisition of magic power--miscellaneous.
Magic power from overheard talk of spirits.
Magic power from heavenly voice.
Magic powers lost.
Magic power lost in sleep.
Magic power lost with loss of blood.
Drawing witch's blood annuls her spells.
Silence under punishment breaks power of enchantment.
Magic powers fail because of lack of faith in them.
Magic power lost by being frightened.
Loss of magic power through incest.
Saint causes loss of magic power.
Sorcerer's power lost when his teeth are knocked out.
Conjurer's power lost by eating magic food.
Magic power rendered ineffective.
Magic power not effective on men born on certain day.
Magic power rendered ineffective by pious deeds.
Loss of magic power--miscellaneous.
Sorceress to lose her magic power as soon as one of her transformed husbands seizes her and swallows her.
Woman loses her magic power when she loses her simplicity and humility.
Magic passes from body to body.
Magic results produced by wishing.
Wishes granted without limit.
Limited number of wishes granted.
Man to have wishes if he can repeat them in one breath.
One wish granted.
Wishing by stars.
Wishing by shooting star.
Magic results produced by command.
Magic results produced by religious ceremony.
Magic results produced by prayer.
Magic fountain produced by prayer.
Prayers of nun cause Virgin Mary to show her the infant Jesus.
Garment produced by prayer.
Pain stopped by prayer.
Upon praying of a saint, sea or pool is filled with sand so that people are able to cross with dry feet.
Mouse's prayer to gods about her children granted.
Saint opens prison door by prayer.
Food produced by prayer.
Magic results produced by sacrifices.
Magic results from sacrifices at trees and wells.
Magic power from sacrificing a cock.
Magic power from shedding blood.
Magic powers from baptizing an animal.
Magic power from christening an animal.
Magic power from christening a cock.
Magic produced by saying mass.
Masses used along with other magic for cursing.
Magic articles made during mass.
Magic results from sign of the cross.
Fountain produced from sign of the cross.
Sign of the cross made over sword (knife) endows it with magic powers.
Sign of the cross enables person to relate marvel.
Sign of the cross made over beer protects against poison.
Venomous dog killed by sign of cross.
Magic results from uttering powerful name.
Magic results produced in name of deity.
Evil spirits conjured away in name of deity.
Magic use of hero's name brings water.
Magic results produced in name of saint.
Magic results from fasting.
Fasting a part of magic ritual.
Magic results from singing hymn.
Magic results from worshiping god (goddess).
Magic results from laughing.
Scent of flowers from laughter.
Magic results from speaking.
Magic results from licking.
Magic results from spitting.
Magic results from power of thought.
Magic results from contact with earth.
Magic results from singing.
Sympathetic magic.
Magic results obtained by imitating desired action.
Opening mouth makes door open wider.
Curing wound by treating object which caused wound.
Magic result from loosing knots.
Loosing sandals destroys fakir's power.
Loosing knots permits horse to return home.
Reverse magic.
Magic results of reversing a spell.
Cure for leprosy by drinking from opposite lip of horn from that which caused it.
Faster one walks, longer the trail.
Power over monster (wizard, king) obtained by reversing orders.
Magic turned against the makers, so that they are bewildered and kill themselves.
Magic results from breathing.
Magic telepathy.
Magic power at cross-roads.
Magic results from burning.
Magic results from bathing.
Magic results from contact with water.
Magic power by circumambulation.
Dextrosum (sunwise) circuit (for good luck).
Druid performs circumambulation right-handwise to confer honor or bring good luck.
Withershins (countersunwise) circuit (for ill luck).
Druid performs circumambulation withershins to bring ill luck.
Magic results from curse.
Saint's curse splits rocks.
Cursing wells.
Cursing stones.
Magic results from eating or drinking.
Characteristics of animal acquired by eating it.
Magic results from kissing.
Magic by creeping (running, pulling) through a hole.
Magic from maiden walking naked in public.
Power of nudity in magic.
Magic results from other acts.
Magic power from cleansing.
Magic results from clapping the hands together.
Magic results from special rituals.
Magic powers from touching.
Magic results from chewing.
Magic results from performing good deeds.
Omniscience of a god.
Magic knowledge of magician.
Magician rebukes secret usury.
Magic knowledge of saints and holy men.
Saint perceives cheat.
Lost object or person found by holy man.
Magic knowledge of fairies.
Magic knowledge of witches.
Magic knowledge of angels.
Magic knowledge of superman.
Magic knowledge of druid.
Druid's "keys of wisdom".
Magic knowledge of the Pope.
Magic knowledge (wisdom) of Solomon.
Magic knowledge of poet.
Magic knowledge about culprit's offense to deity.
Magic knowledge of identity of stranger.
Magic knowledge from queen of other world.
Magic knowledge from devil.
Magic knowledge from touching "knowledge tooth" with thumb.
Future revealed by "knowledge tooth".
Magic knowledge learned from magician teacher.
Magic knowledge from angel.
Magic knowledge from bathing in holy water.
Magic knowledge from sign of the cross.
Magic knowledge from dream.
Truth given in vision.
Information received through dream.
Dream shows where stolen girl is hidden.
Person dreams of spot where drowned body lies.
Murder made known in a dream.
Dream tells of safety of absent person who has been in danger.
Raja told in a dream the stranger he seeks to destroy is his own son.
Warning in dreams.
Warning in dream fulfilled.
Dream warns of illness or injury.
Dream warns of danger which will happen in near future.
Solution to problem is discovered in dream.
Magic knowledge from God.
Magic knowledge from goddess.
Magic knowledge from mythical ancestor.
Magic knowledge from guardian spirits.
Magic knowledge from the dead.
Magic wisdom.
Seventy-two kinds of wisdom mastered by Adam.
Magic wisdom from eating or drinking.
Thumb of knowledge.
Thumb of knowledge from catching thumb in door of fairy.
Magic wisdom from drinking of well.
Magic wisdom received from supernatural being.
Divine inspiration for writing sacred books.
Magic power of prophecy.
Foreknowledge of hour of death.
Cheek bitten as warning of approaching death.
Foreknowledge of means of death.
Saints have foreknowledge of coming of guests.
Foreknowledge of unwished guests.
Hero has foreknowledge of coming of guests.
Fakir has foreknowledge of coming of guests.
Foreknowledge of wounding in battle (combat).
Foreknowledge of unhappiness of son or sons.
Magic knowledge of what is to happen to himself after death.
Power of prophecy a gift.
Power of prophecy from fairy.
Power of prophecy from God.
Power of prophecy induced.
Power of prophecy induced by crawling backward around grave.
Power of prophecy induced by conjuring.
Power of prophecy from accidental drinking of water from magic fountain.
Dying man's power of prophecy.
Means of learning future.
Future learned by sitting on hide.
Fortune told by cutting sand.
Future revealed in dream.
Druid interprets prophetic dream.
Poets interpret dreams.
Dream interpreter corrects dream.
Truest dreams at daybreak.
Fortune-telling dream induced by sleeping in extraordinary place (position).
Prophetic dream induced by incantation.
Prophetic dream loses force after a year.
Prophetic dream allegorical.
Allegorical dream: ripe and unripe ears, fat and lean kine.
Prophetic dream induced by eating meat of bull.
Eve in vision sees Cain drink Abel's blood.
Dream by a (pregnant) woman about fate of her unborn child.
Future husband (wife) revealed in dream.
Dream interpreted by opposites.
Death of another revealed in dream.
Future revealed by presentiment: "knowledge within".
Woman cries out on beholding man her unborn child is destined to slay.
Future learned through omens.
Omens from sneezing.
Omens from flight of birds.
Behavior of fire as omen.
Rising smoke as omen.
Divination from rising smoke.
Haruspices: divination by condition of animal's liver.
Divination by throwing objects into water.
Divination from first person (thing) met.
First to partake of certain feast will be first to disobey the king (etc.).
Saint declares that first man to come to certain place shall be his successor.
Prognostications from day of week on which first day of year falls.
Divination from animal fight.
Auguries from movement of animal.
Divination from howling of dog.
Divination from clouds.
Divination from sound of voice.
Divination from sound of chariot wheels.
Magic manifestation as omen.
Stone changes from red to green as auspicious sign.
Weather signs.
Divination from wind.
Prognostications for year from winds blowing on January 1.
Divination by choice of roads: which son to be born first.
Bad omens.
Prodigy as evil omen.
Tears of blood as evil omen.
Two drops of blood in book mean that two have been killed.
Blood (in dream) as omen of killing.
Wave of blood as sign of death.
Drops of blood presage slaughter.
Washers at the ford.
Bad dream as evil omen.
Vision as evil omen.
Breaking mirror as evil omen.
Eclipse as evil omen.
Moon furnishes omen.
New moon with old moon in her arm a sign of storm.
Red or pale moon an evil omen.
Stars furnish omens.
Sirius as bad omen.
Meeting certain persons (animals) a bad omen.
Bad omen: greeting one before dawn.
Bad omen for two bridal processions to meet.
Sight of mermaid bad omen.
Sight of phantom ship a bad omen.
Red (gray, etc.).
Animal behavior as bad omen.
Howling of dog as bad omen.
Bird calls as evil omen.
Spider dropping on person's back as ill omen.
Mice gnawing garments as bad omen.
Fairy music as evil omen.
Holy man's fall from horse a bad omen.
Hailstorm as bad omen.
Dry river bed as bad omen.
Dry river bed as omen of approaching death.
Spectre as evil omen.
Spirit host fighting in air as evil omen.
Clashing shields in heavens as evil omen.
Roaring of shields as evil omen.
Snow on house omen of approaching death.
Plague as bad omen.
Withering of tree as bad omen.
Forgetting leashes of hounds as bad omen.
Bad omen: seeing unusual sight on road home.
Man killed by accident when ship is pushed into the sea taken as an evil omen.
Roaring of waves augurs danger to king.
Falling of shields as evil omen.
Falling of book satchels as evil omen.
Croaking of raven as bad omen.
Hooting of owl a bad omen.
Stirrup leather breaking as bad omen.
Evil omen: scavenger carrying headload of wood.
Place of bad omen.
Stumping toe a bad omen.
Favorable omens.
Throbbing of right eye as favorable omen.
Meeting certain person (animal) a good omen.
Good omen: meeting old woman with pot of newly drawn water.
Hearing thunder on setting forth a good omen.
Bird of prey catching quarry a good omen.
Hearing bird cry a good omen.
Hearing cuckoo call a good omen.
Hearing heron's cry a good omen.
Shooting star as good omen.
Roaring wave augurs luck.
Omen at laying foundation of building.
King who finds golden bow and arrow (spindle) knows an heir will be born to him.
Black dog as good omen.
Spider dropping on one's front a good omen.
Power of prophecy lost.
Power of prophecy lost by spitting.
Magic knowledge of events in distant place.
Bear knows if person looks at his track.
Fairy has knowledge of how mortals fare.
Father feels that son is in danger.
Father knows of son's death from far away.
Dream shows events in distant place.
Dream warns emperor of wife's unfaithfulness.
Dream warns king of error in judgment.
Dream warns king of danger to kingdom.
Dream reveals death of brother.
Dream reveals to girl death of her lover.
Dream shows others in danger.
Pursuit revealed by magic.
"Knowledge tooth" reveals events in distant place.
Fugitives' way revealed by magic.
Magic advice.
Advice from magician (fortune-teller, etc.).
Wizard shows man likeness of cock which will win fight.
Advice from dream.
Advice from God (or gods).
Magic knowledge of strange tongues.
Gift of tongues received from ghosts.
Knowledge of ghost language.
Magic knowledge of language of animals.
Magic knowledge of demon language.
Magic knowledge of tree language.
Magic knowledge of vegetable language.
Magic knowledge of language of valleys.
Magic discovery of desired place.
Location of fountain revealed in dream.
Lost object discovered by magic.
Lost object found by throwing spade at ghost.
Location of fort determined by reading in book.
Location of buried object (body) magically revealed.
Location of corpse of drowned person detected by magic.
Druid divines whereabouts of missing person.
Druid by magic discovers whereabouts of abducted wife.
Magic discovery of place for (church) building.
Magic detection of crime.
Magic detection of theft.
Witch (wizard) reveals name of thief.
Wizard tells location of stolen property.
Wizard compels thief to return stolen property.
Wizard compels thief to deliver stolen property in person to the owner.
Wizard shows form or shadow or picture of thief.
Wizard detects thieves by placing leaf from Bible under doorstep.
Wizard detects thief by trance.
Magic detection of poison.
Magic detection of murder.
Magic detection of conspiracy.
Magic detection of sin.
Druids magically detect crime.
Saints magically detect crime.
Dream reveals sin to saint.
Saint magically compels thief to return goods.
Detection of crime through "knowledge tooth".
Magic remedy learned by magic.
Magic knowledge--miscellaneous.
Magic knowledge of another's thoughts.
Chief reads visitor's thoughts.
Deception revealed in dream.
Magic knowledge enables man to identify headless body.
Learning to read by magic.
Man enabled to read baptismal service by washing in holy water.
Alphabet written on cake learned by eating it.
Identity of grave revealed by magic.
Identity of singers revealed by magic.
Man is able to tell king dream which king himself does not remember.
Magic knowledge of unborn calf.
Magic sight of saints.
Magic sight of blind holy man.
Saint gives king power of long distance sight.
Saint blesses brothers' eyes so that they see heaven.
Means of acquiring magic sight.
Magic sight by treading on another's foot.
Magic sight from thumb of knowledge.
Magic sight by looking in certain place.
Magic sight by looking under arm.
Magic sight by looking over right shoulder.
Magic sight by looking under one's legs.
Magic sight by looking between dog's ears.
Magic sight by looking through ring.
One becomes ghost-seer after looking through hole in coffin.
Magic sight by looking through keyhole.
Magic sight by looking at shining object.
Magic sight by looking into glass of water.
Magic sight by looking at polished fingernail.
Crystal-gazing.
Magic sight by looking at polished sword-blade.
Magic sight by looking at shoulder-bone of sheep.
Magic sight by looking in the hollow of one's hand.
Magic sight by looking through feather.
Magic sight by putting ointment into eye.
Magic sight by standing on certain stone.
Magic sight given to abandoned child.
Deaf and dumb man can see soul taken to happiness or punishment.
Possession by spirit of dead person gives second sight.
Magic sight by turning clothes inside out.
Magic sight by standing alone for three days.
Magic sight gift of grateful animals.
Loss of magic sight.
Magic sight overcome by incantation.
Kinds of magic sight.
Second sight.
Magic view of future lover.
Magic power to see distant objects.
Magic sight of earthly objects from otherworld.
Magic power to see whole country at once.
Magic power to see invisible creatures.
Magic power of seeing Death at head or foot of bed and thus forecasting progress of sickness.
Man sees angels over the heads of the good and black stars over the bad.
Magic sight: ability to see the soul (astral body).
Magic power to see souls after death.
Magic power to see soul leaving body.
Ability to see heavenly beings.
Ability to see angel of God.
Ability to see messengers of Pluto.
Magic power to see concealed things.
Magic power of seeing things underground.
Magic power to see whether girl is virgin.
Magic power to see lost things.
Prophet locates lost child.
Magic power to see death circumstances of absent person.
Magic power to "see" who will die during coming year.
Magic sight of incident before it actually happens.
Person sees phantom funeral procession some time before the actual procession takes place.
What religious ascetic sees as gold, ordinary people see as scorpions.
Witches have power to see distant sights.
Magic hearing.
Magic hearing of noises which portend death.
Listening at church door on Halloween to hear the names of those to die in the coming year.
Sounds heard before death; the sounds are later repeated in connection with the death or funeral.
Noise warns of approaching death.
Sounds heard from distance at time of death.
Person hears call for aid from great distance.
Man's strength made equal to that of angel.
Magic strength resides in hair.
Saint binds devil with one of the hairs of her head.
Magic strength resides in beard.
Magic strength resides in semen.
Magic strength by bathing.
Magic strength by touching earth.
Magic strength from helpful animal.
Other means of acquiring magic strength.
Magic strength acquired by looking at necklace.
Magic strength given horse by combing hair right way and wrong way.
Magic strength by stroking.
Magic strength obtained by wearing blue ribbon.
Magic strength results from songs.
Magic strength from demon.
Magic waxing and waning of strength.
Ghost's strength waxes and wanes with height of fire.
Strength wanes at particular places.
Magic waxing of strength at night.
Magic weakness.
Magic weakness during certain period.
Magic weakness for five days each year.
Magic weakness never entirely removed.
Magic weakness as result of fairy's (goddess's) curse.
Snake becomes powerless when his path is crossed by a pregnant woman.
Magic weakness from eating sender's food.
Magic invulnerability of saints.
Magic invulnerability of saint enables him to break poisonous snakes in bare hands.
Saint invulnerable to poison.
Poisoned drink or food made harmless by saint's blessing.
St. Cecilia withstands three blows of beheading sword and lives three days after.
Magic invulnerability of animals.
Invulnerable cat.
Invulnerable stag.
Magic invulnerability of ogres.
Invulnerability from certain things.
Man proof against iron, stone, and wood.
Man proof against boiling water.
Saint kept in boiling water for three days shows no signs of discomfort.
Bath in boiling oil, pitch, or melted lead does not hurt a saint.
Saint placed in boiling oil but uninjured.
Burning magically evaded.
Magic animal proof against burning.
Fire does not injure a saint.
Fiery furnace as a mean of torture for a saint remains ineffective.
Saint walks through glowing coals without harm.
Red hot iron carried with the bare hands without harm to the saint.
Saint carries fire in hand to warm guests.
Holy maidens carry glowing embers in their chasubles without being burned.
Sacred book or manuscript does not burn in fire.
Man proof against wet.
Man proof against wet from rain.
Person proof against wet from snow.
Walking upon water without wetting the soles or garments.
The waters of seas, lakes, and streams turn aside and let the holy man walk through untouched by moisture.
Stones cast in the ocean keep dry.
Rain or snow avoids certain places according to the desire of a saint or monk.
Whale husband makes wife's eyes impervious to sea water.
Invulnerability from weapons.
Man proof against weapons.
Invulnerability from hurled stones.
Magic animal proof against weapons.
Axe will not cut man, however much he strikes himself.
Immunity from drowning.
Magic animal proof against drowning.
Magic animal proof against hound.
Man proof against poison.
Invulnerability from demons.
Invulnerability for limited time.
Invulnerability for single day.
Invulnerability only when dressed in certain clothes.
Attainment of invulnerability.
Invulnerability by being burned and anointed with magic ointments.
Invulnerability bestowed by many-headed monster.
Magic horse renders rider invulnerable.
Invulnerability through bathing in dragon's blood.
Attainment of invulnerability through magic bath.
Invulnerability bestowed by saint.
Invulnerability by invoking saint.
Pious man in city renders it invulnerable.
Man killed and restored as invulnerable.
Loss of invulnerability.
Invulnerability lost if man forgets sweetheart.
Immortality useless without eternal youth.
Woman changes into an immortal.
Immortality bestowed.
Immortality by burning.
Immortality gained from bargain with Death.
Immortality bestowed by saint.
Immortality bestowed by Christ.
Immortality bestowed by deity.
Immortality exchanged.
Immortality exchanged for death on alternate days.
Giant immortal so long as he touches land of his birth.
Time of death postponed.
Witch delays person's death.
Death postponed if substitute can be found.
Saint delays person's death.
Death can be postponed if man does not break tabu for forty days.
Life prolonged a thousand years by traveling six months each year.
Death postponed for three generations.
Death evaded.
Hero (saint) taken to Paradise (Heaven) alive.
"The Two Sorrows of the Kingdom of Heaven": Elijah and Enoch pass to otherworld without dying.
Three Nephites are granted quasi-immortal state by Jesus Christ at time of resurrection.
Magic longevity.
Old woman has lived for ages.
Two hundred years of unfailing life and happiness offered to warrior by fairy woman in exchange for one day's delay of battle.
Magic beautification of fairy.
Magic beauty bestowed.
Magic beauty bestowed by supernatural wife.
Magic beauty bestowed by saint.
Beautification by stroking (tapping).
Magic beautification through prayer by saint.
Beautification by death and resuscitation.
Beautification by decapitation and replacement of head.
Beautification by boiling and resuscitation.
Girl becomes more beautiful as she is burned but her brother, who loves her incestuously, turns to charcoal.
Face of pious girl becomes angelic at death.
Other means of beautification.
Beautification by bathing.
Beautification by removal of skin.
Beautification by fasting.
Magic beautification of house.
Hut becomes mansion.
Magic beautification of animal.
Broken-down nag becomes magnificent riding horse.
Girl magically made hideous.
Man made hideous.
Handsome man magically made ugly.
Object magically made hideous.
Picture magically made hideous.
Magic self-rejuvenation.
Rejuvenation by supernatural person.
Rejuvenation by saint.
Rejuvenation by fairy.
Eternal youth.
Rejuvenation by dismemberment.
Rejuvenation by boiling.
Rejuvenation by dismemberment and boiling.
Rejuvenation by burning.
Rejuvenation by burning and throwing bones into tub of milk.
Rejuvenation by bathing.
Miscellaneous means of rejuvenation.
Rejuvenation by reading in book.
Rejuvenation by looking into mirror.
Rejuvenation by song of pelican.
Rejuvenation by smelling apple.
Rejuvenation by going to other world and having digestive tract removed.
Rejuvenation by changing skin.
Rejuvenation by being reborn.
Rejuvenation by riding surf.
Rejuvenation by drinking from magic horn.
Rejuvenation by conjuring.
Rejuvenation by jumping over cliff.
Transformation to old man to escape recognition.
Magic aging by bathing.
Magic aging by contact with earth after otherworld journey.
Youngest of the three Magi becomes the senior through power of the Savior.
Love purified by magic.
Favor with royalty induced by magic.
Witches induce love.
Power of inducing love given by animals.
Love-compelling man sickens of bargain.
Means of inducing love.
Girl's heart magically removed and fed to man draws her to him.
Apple divided and eaten as love charm.
Love by curse.
Love lost by magic.
Husband's love magically turns to hatred.
Book written by man with marvelous memory.
Person remembers all he has ever learned.
Magic carrying power of voice.
Magic power of hearing.
Power to hit whatever one aims at.
Magic immunity from fatigue.
Fecundity magically induced.
Barrenness removed by eating or drinking.
Barrenness removed by bathing.
Barrenness removed by prayer.
Barrenness removed by saint's blessing.
Craftsmanship magically bestowed by saint.
Appetite magically diminished.
Hate induced by magic.
Druids can pass through trees.
Magic power of lighting empty lamp by breathing on it used for divination.
Any work touched automatically done.
Magic fleetness of foot.
Donning skin makes woman fleet.
Seven sleepers.
Mighty sleeper.
Kyffhдuser.
King asleep in mountain will awake when his horse's shoes are worn down.
Sleeping Beauty.
Deathlike sleep.
Sleepless watcher magically put to sleep.
Means of inducing magic sleep.
Magic sleep through curse.
Magic sleep by lousing.
Magic sleep by hairdressing.
Magic sleep brought on by combing hero's hair lasts six months.
Magic sleep by hypnotic suggestion.
Lulling to sleep by "sleepy" stories (songs).
Song (crуnбn) used to lull children to sleep.
Snakes put to sleep by music on harp.
Magic sleep from breaking tabu.
Magic sleep when hero breaks fruit open too soon.
Magic sleep induced by certain person.
Savage elephant lulled to sleep by virgin.
Magic sleep induced by disappointed suitor.
Magic sleep induced by abductor.
Magic sleep induced by druid.
Magic sleep induced by saint.
Magic sleep induced by deity.
Guardian magically made to sleep while girl goes to lover.
Guardian magically made to sleep while lover visits maiden.
Person in magic sleep surrounded by protecting fire.
Person in magic sleep surrounded by protecting hedge.
Three-fold magic sleep.
Hero wakened from magic sleep by wife who has purchased place in his bed from false bride.
Lover's magic sleep at rendezvous.
Magic sleep: in order to sleep off period of enchantment.
Dragon-fighter's magic sleep.
Experiences during magic sleep.
Transportation during magic sleep.
Future spouse met during magic sleep.
Waking from sleep.
Waking from magic sleep by cutting off finger.
Waking from magic sleep by letting tear fall on sleeper.
Waking from magic sleep by removal of enchanting instrument.
Hero wakened from magic sleep by wife who has purchased place in his bed from false bride.
Waking from magic sleep by kiss.
Certain persons invisible.
Magic invisibility of gods.
Magic invisibility of saints.
Magic invisibility of druids.
Magic invisibility of ogre.
Magic invisibility of priests.
Magic invisibility of angels.
Certain objects invisible.
Magic door invisible to women.
Ship made invisible.
Chariot made invisible.
Food and drink appear and disappear in otherworld.
Boat made invisible.
Invisibility conferred on person.
Invisibility conferred by a god.
Invisibility conferred by fairy.
Means of acquiring invisibility.
Invisibility by scarification.
Invisibility by reciting formula backwards.
Forgotten fiancйe.
Husband magically forgets wife.
Means of bringing about magic forgetfulness.
Curse of forgetfulness.
Kiss of forgetfulness.
Dog's licking of man produces forgetfulness.
Forgetfulness by eating.
Forgetfulness by drinking.
Forgetfulness by spitting.
Forgetting by stumbling.
Forgetting by stepping over log.
Magic forgetting of wife when husband removes shirt she has given him.
Forgetfulness from fright.
Forgetfulness by mourning.
Forgetfulness caused by specific place.
Forgetfulness caused by Tower of Babel.
Barking of brazen dogs causes forgetfulness.
Magic reawakening of memory.
Forgotten fiancйe reawakens husband
's memory.
Forgotten fiancйe reawakens husband
's memory by detaining lovers through magic.
Forgotten fiancйe reawakens husband
's memory by serving as milkmaid and talking to calf.
Forgotten fiancйe reawakens husband
's memory by having magic doves converse.
Forgotten fiancйe buys place in husband
's bed and reawakens his memory.
Forgotten fiancйe attracts attention by magically stopping wedding carriage of new bride.
Forgotten fiancйe remembered by means of doll.
Forgotten fiancйe remembered by means of bird.
Piece of wood revives memory.
Forgotten wife remembered by seeing her initials.
Forgotten wife gives food to beggar: husband's memory reawakened.
Sight of old home reawakens memory and brings about return from other world.
Longing of human child of sky-mother to visit father on earth.
Years thought days.
Years seem moments while man listens to song of bird.
Day seems moment while saint listens to music made by bird's wing.
Three days and three nights seem one hour as saint preaches.
Two friars perceive no passing of time from Shrovetide till following Easter while they talk of Christ.
Years are as moments to creator.
Moments thought years.
King in the bath; years of experience in a moment.
Wizard gives man the illusion that he has been away twenty (forty) years.
Causes of magic dumbness.
Dumbness as curse.
Magic recovery of speech.
Magic (loss and) recovery of speech.
Speech magically recovered on execution stake.
Speech magically recovered when certain bird is caught.
Speech magically recovered when third person guesses secret transaction.
Dumbness magically cured by astonishment.
Speech magically recovered on Hallowe'en.
Magic illusion.
Saints cause illusions.
Fairies cause illusions.
Magic illusion dissipated by sign of the cross.
Druids cause illusions.
Giantess' punishment is pure illusion.
Magician makes people lift garments to avoid wetting in imaginary river.
People swim in imaginary rising river.
Thread made to appear as a large log carried by a cock.
Pursued animal runs through imaginary river.
Hideous person magically makes self seem beautiful.
Druid makes self appear ugly on one side, beautiful on other.
Magician appears as swineherd, dwarf, and giant in order to seduce queen and scorns her later in the same shapes.
Magician appears as beggar or old man in order to free prisoners.
Man magically made to believe himself bishop, archbishop, and pope.
Magic illusion as protection.
Man made to appear to pursuers as woman carrying babe.
Son made to appear to pursuers as spinning wheel, buck, and hog.
Lonesome wife scares robbers by making it appear that her husband is at home.
Pursuers confused in other ways by magic illusion.
Horse made to appear as tree-trunk.
Armies separated with illusion that each has won object of contention.
Enemy's last arrow made to appear crooked so that he does not use it, and adversary gets time to kill him.
Spear made to appear as a reed in order to kill treacherously.
Illusive fire stops men.
Sea water made to behave like solid earth.
Magic rath always seems distant, never near.
Illusion: mountains seem to be fighting.
Goat appears to be two every time man aims.
Vision of food arises to tempt fasting women.
Storm appears to be island.
Person appears to be in several places at once.
Magic avoidance of fatigue.
Thirst magically caused to disappear.
Crying induced by magic as trick to force child's mother.
Magic heaviness.
Magic homesickness.
Animal becomes magically larger.
Centipede becomes large enough to kill demon.
Magic murder.
Kinds of death produced by magic.
Person magically reduced to ashes.
Person magically reduced to pile of bones.
Persons magically caused to dance selves to death.
Poisoning by magic.
Persons magically made to decay and die.
Plague magically invoked.
Means employed in magic murder.
Death-giving glance.
Evil eye sets bird on fire.
Murder by sympathetic magic.
Person whose shadow is pierced by spear falls dead.
Spell chanted over person's shadow brings death.
Murder by abuse or destruction of image.
Body of victim abused.
Hair of victim burned, causing his death.
Murder by abuse of clothing of victim.
Murder by boiling gloves of victim.
Candle burned causes victim to waste away.
Animals abused or destroyed to cause death of person.
Miscellaneous objects abused to cause death.
Needle, placed under hearth, burns and causes death of victim.
Murder by pointing.
Death by cursing.
Death in sin (damnation) by cursing.
Curse of clergy causes man to die of wound.
Hunter reduced to ashes by power of heroine's chastity.
Person killed by spike magically made to appear on chair.
Murder by showing man caul with which he was born.
Horse made to hang himself on gate by magic.
Breathing on enemy drives him onto knife.
Maiming by magic.
Heart removed by magic.
Blinding by magic.
Blinding by curse.
Person suffers from "crookedness in his eye" as result of curse.
Sight of holy person causes blindness.
Person caused to squint as punishment.
Enemies magically caused to lose sight of each other while hunting.
Magic blindness by snake bite.
When certain thief coughs, watchmen become blind.
Flesh magically does not regrow.
Magic mutilation: sexual organs.
Bride enchanted by witch loses her sexual organs.
Castration by magic.
Magic mutilation: temporary growths on person.
Magic discomfort.
Tormenting by magic.
Tormenting by sympathetic magic.
Magic restlessness in bed.
Magic insatiable thirst.
Druids cause magic thirst.
Saints cause magic thirst.
Magic scratching (itching).
Magic discomfort: continued breaking of wind.
Man magically made to bark like dog.
Magic sickness.
Magic love-sickness.
Magic heart-sickness.
Magic pestilence.
Magic sickness because girl has thrown away her consecrated wafer.
Sickness of princess dependent on witch's fire.
Sickness transferred to animal.
Magic sickness because of Evil Eye.
Magic sickness from curse.
Magic sickness from wounding sick person.
Magic sickness from bit of weapon left in head.
Magic sickness by making fruit plant dry and shrivel.
Magic insanity.
Madness from demonic possession.
Insanity from seeing strange sight.
Magic insanity caused by hearing strange sound.
Druids bereave men of senses.
Insanity of princess dependent on height of fire.
Insanity because of Evil Eye.
Person abducted by Echo crazed and dumb.
Insanity from curse.
Elfshot.
Elves get stones from fairies who get them from mermaids.
Death or bodily injury by magic--miscellaneous.
Person magically caused to fall.
Person made to fall down by pointing at door.
People magically compelled to bend arm.
Magic hair-ball used for bewitching.
Evil Eye.
Evil eye covered with seven veils.
Evil eye covered with bag or hide while owner is stoned.
Evil eye from exposure to magic concoction.
Man with power of evil eye cannot look at any living thing before breaking fast in the morning without causing it to wither and die.
Averting Evil Eye.
Evil eye averted by spitting.
Evil eye averted by swinging cat over child's cradle.
Simulated change of sex to baffle Evil Eye.
Black as guard against Evil Eye.
Countermagic against Evil Eye: returning glance of Evil Eye blights the original glancer.
Person kills with Evil Eye.
Person kills animals with glance of Evil Eye.
Magic paralysis.
Sword made magically helpless.
Animal rendered immovable.
Horse enchanted so that he stands still.
Horse (ox) unable to move wagon paralyzed by witch.
Bird paralyzed.
Person charged with keeping birds from the crops confines them in barn (usually roofless) by magic while he goes to town.
Oxen paralyzed.
Mule paralyzed by witch.
Pigs paralyzed by witch.
Dog paralyzed.
Ship held back by magic.
Bird overpowered by stepping on his shadow.
Person paralyzed.
Witch prevents person from drinking.
Person who yawns cannot close mouth.
Magic paralysis of tongue of a talkative wife.
Magic paralysis by Evil Eye.
Magic paralysis by curse.
Charm used by witch to cause paralysis.
Magic paralysis caused by saint.
Magic prevention of performance of task.
Robber-proof house: thieves are petrified when they enter house for unlawful purposes; are fed and welcomed, otherwise.
Paralysis by singing magic song.
Attracting by magic.
Animals magically called.
Mammals magically called.
Buffalo magically called.
Deer summoned by singing.
Bear summoned by magic.
Fish or sea animals magically called.
Coyote calls the largest fish.
Birds magically called.
Magic means of attracting.
Person summoned by thinking of him.
Summoning by burning hair.
Long-plaited hair struck on ground summons female goddess to aid of owner.
Summoning by wish.
Mistress summoned by wish.
Ship summoned by wish.
Genie called by writing his name on papers and burning them.
Foster-mother summoned by saying her name.
Animals summoned by pronouncing their names.
Helper summoned by calling his name.
Order for spirit's help left on card.
Summoning by prayer.
Imprisoned cleric comes to answer saint's prayers in ritual.
Saint magically causes druids to bless instead of curse.
Imprisoning by magic.
Witch made to enter boulder magically and imprisoned therein.
Other forms of bewitching.
Magic compulsion to break wind under certain conditions.
Land made magically sterile.
Earth dried up in three years while hero is under earth.
Trees killed by magic.
Trees magically made fruitless.
Tree magically withers.
Magic glance reduces tree to ashes.
Anchorite consumes tree by one blast of his fiery breath.
Evil magic in the dairy.
Cows magically made dry.
Cows made to give bad milk.
Witches make cows give bloody milk.
Witch causes cow to give curdled milk.
Milk transferred from another's cow by magic.
Milk transferred from another's cow by squeezing an axehandle (or the like).
Witch transfers milk from another's cows by use of hair rope.
Witch transfers milk from another's cows to a vessel.
Butter transferred from another by magic.
Industrial processes magically interrupted.
Beer magically kept from brewing.
Butter magically kept from coming.
Saint causes dyes to work incorrectly.
Game animals magically made overwary.
Curse (by saint) makes river (lake) barren of fish.
Weapons magically dulled.
Sword magically dulled.
Execution sword turned to wood.
Guns rendered ineffective by witch.
Weapons magically blown out of enemies' hands.
Theft by magic.
Crops stolen by magic.
Hunter's prey stolen during night by magic.
Sheep or cattle disappear every night.
Cow and cowherd disappear every New Year's night.
Men disappear every night.
Gold stolen by magic.
Food stolen by magic.
Witches rifle drawers of chests in house.
Witch steals potatoes, leaving no traces.
Locks opened by magic.
All locks opened on the night of Christ's Nativity.
Fairy gains entrance to locked city.
Magic used against property--miscellaneous.
Man makes all of iron in enemy's storehouse disappear so weapons cannot be made.
Curse makes stones useless.
Animals magically stricken dead.
Swine magically kept from fattening.
Saint causes mill to turn backwards.
Books illegible as result of curse.
House destroyed by magic.
Goods magically diminish.
Food dwindles as soon as it is cooked.
Clothes burned by magic.
Trail magically closed.
Trail magically covered with thorns.
Fire drills magically made not to function.
Magic attack against enemy.
Magic fire drawn down on foe.
Magic plague of frogs drawn down on foe.
Magic army of snakes and frogs drawn down on foe.
Streams of blood magically drawn down on foe.
Magic causes enemies to fight among selves.
Storms magically drawn down on foe.
Enemies magically made to feel thirst.
Magic lake (river) sent against enemy.
River magically caused to rise against enemy.
Magic drought to destroy enemy.
Druids dry up water in enemy's camp.
Magic paralysis drawn down on foe.
Magic heat causes enemies to melt away.
Stones, etc., magically made to burn feet of enemies.
Black cloud magically blown upon enemy.
Plants and animals magically caused to shriek, frightening enemy.
Army stopped by saint's curse.
Magician shoots an arrow of each finger against enemy.
Magic earth-slip overcomes enemies.
Enemy magically enclosed within walls.
Man caused to sink into mud.
Walls overthrown by magic (Jericho).
Pestilence magically sent upon (domestic) animals.
Magic disappearance.
Magic village and people disappear by magic.
Magic putrefaction.
Magic trouble-making.
Ship magically sunk.
Miscellaneous destructive magic powers.
Loss of skill through magic.
Magic banishment.
House crushed by magic.
Calabashes broken by magic.
Inexhaustible treasure.
Coin multiplies itself.
Treasure magically discovered.
Treasure found by sprinkling ground with blood of white cock.
Shower of jewels magically drawn from sky.
Gold magically produced.
Gold vomited.
Valley fills with gold at command.
Field turns to gold after ascetic plows it.
Saint magically produces treasure.
"Golden" son of supernatural bride of king has the power of producing gold and gold buildings, ornaments etc.
Magic corn eaten by animal becomes gold.
Silver magically produced.
Provisions magically furnished.
Provisions provided in answer to prayer.
Starvation prevented by composition of hymn.
Provisions provided by messenger from heaven.
Rubbish magically becomes food and clothing.
Trash magically becomes food.
Drink magically furnished.
Saint causes fish to come out of lake to satisfy guests for whom he has no food.
Showers of grain called down.
Fruit obtained from tree by magic.
Magic multiplication of objects.
Magic multiplication of objects by saints.
Saint causes waters to be filled with fish.
Fish caught in waterless field.
Animals miraculously multiplied.
Multiplication of metal by saint.
Multiplication of the corpse of saint when different communities claim the body.
Multiplication of food by saint.
One sack of charcoal makes a hundred.
Tree with all sorts of cakes hanging from its branches springs from one cake.
Warrior's equipment magically furnished.
Horse and weapons needed by hero are provided after incense is offered to Nandia, the Bull.
Magic journey.
Magic journey by wishing.
Magic journey with closed eyes.
Magic journey through power of imagination.
Magic journey by making distance vanish.
Magic journey: man carried by spirit or devil.
Magic journey during which one must not think good or evil.
Magic journey in cloud.
Magic journey in cloud of fire.
Magic journey in whirl of snow.
Magic transportation on smoke.
Magic journey by throwing knife into whirlwind.
Magic transportation from kick of a horse.
Magic journey on sunbeam.
Magic journey: man left on land appears in ship.
Power to go through closed doors.
Sailing in a leaky boat without sinking.
Saint rides on thorn tree and drags its roots through earth to dig out canal.
Magic compulsion to make journey.
Journey with magic speed.
Journey to otherworld with magic speed.
Magic speed by eating magic grains (medicine).
Hundred-league stride.
Magic journey as swift as thought.
Journey with speed of angels.
Journey with magic speed by saint.
Magic journey over water.
Saint causes earth to rise underfoot, enabling him to cross water.
Saint drives over bog as over land.
Magic power to walk on water.
Magic transportation by waves.
Saint rides blessed wave.
Magic transportation on a sheet of ice.
Person crosses water in chariot.
Magic underwater journey.
Magic underground journey.
Magic air journey.
Levitation.
Object magically raised in air.
Stone cross magically raised in air.
Magic ability to fly.
Power of flying from eating children's hearts.
Magic air journey from biting an ear.
Stones fly through the air at saint's bidding.
Magic transportation to highest summit by divine power.
Objects sent through air.
Objects magically moved.
Rocks moved by magic.
Castle magically transported.
Mosque turns around in order to face in the true direction of Mecca after prayers of two saints.
Sunken palace magically raised.
Mountains (hills) magically transported.
Mountain moved by prayer.
Lake magically transported.
Saint drives lake into sea.
Saint's possessions magically transported.
Island magically transported.
Well magically transported.
Ship moved by sacrifice.
Magic house removed.
Objects magically sent to certain place.
Natural law suspended.
Witch keeps water from boiling.
Control of weather by saint's prayers.
Saint has power to control winds and storms at will.
Shaman's wife controls weather.
Weather changed on confession of deed.
Storm produced by magic.
Storm from calling on evil spirit.
Storm from calling up spirits to help find buried treasure.
Storms produced by devil.
Storm at death of wizard.
Storm at death of wicked person.
Storm because of bird's singing.
Storm raised by incantation.
Storm produced by prayer.
Storms raised by druids.
Storm calmed by wizard (druid).
Storm raised by saint.
Woman hoists skirt to raise thunderstorm.
Magic storm produced by animal.
Magic storm produced by serpent.
Magic storm by pointing root of tree at sky.
Storm magically stilled.
Church bell rung as protection against storm.
Storm raised to defeat enemy.
Winds controlled by magic.
Magician (witch) controls winds.
Witch sells power to control winds.
Witch sits atop mast, causes winds to blow.
Saint controls winds.
Druid controls winds.
Leper controls winds.
Wind controlled by girl's spirit.
Wind produced by magic.
Wind raised by dog's wagging tail.
Wind raised by loosing certain knots.
Wind raised by calling on devil.
Wind raised by troubling vessel of water.
Wind raised by throwing traitor's ashes into lake.
Wind raised by putting cat under bushel (barrel) (drowning cat).
Wind raised by whistling.
Wind raised by blowing into tobacco pipe.
Wind stilled by magic.
Wind stopped by revenant.
Precipitation controlled by magic.
Rain produced by magic.
Rain caused to fall in certain place (by rain-god).
No rain falls on religious man.
Rain produced by pouring water.
Rain produced by singing.
Rain produced by prayer.
Rain produced by spitting blood toward sky.
Rain produced by plowing.
Shower from magic anvil.
Rain produced by striking rock.
Rainstorm produced by emptying contents of bag in road.
Witch draws rain or snow from clouds with wave of his hand.
Wizard sells charm to raise rainstorm to enable eloping couple to escape pursuers.
Certain man must laugh in order for it to rain.
Arrival of saint brings rain to rainless land.
White elephant can make rain fall.
Drought produced by magic.
Church spared in flood because of prayers.
Magic spear stuck in earth dries up spring.
Fog produced by magic.
Heavy fog is at once dispelled by a saint.
Hail produced by magic.
Hail produced by whistling tune.
Frost produced by magic.
Old woman has control over frost.
Magic control of snow.
Snow taken away by planting certain root.
Wall of snow around hut in answer to prayer.
Snow produced by magic.
Snow magically caused to melt (burn).
Snow magically caused to last.
Magic control of cold and heat.
Cold produced by magic.
Porcupine as controller of cold.
Man with power to make everything freeze.
Contest of heat and cold.
Heat produced by magic.
Cold water in winter made warm by a saint.
Burning by magic.
Person burned through magic wishing (curse).
Ice controlled by magic.
Ice produced by magic.
Ice melted by magic.
Magic control of seasons.
Winter magically produced.
Local winter.
Summer produced by magic.
Summer magically lengthened.
Fruit magically grows in winter.
Vineyard in full fruit and blooming palm found in winter on the night of Christ's Nativity.
Tree blooms out of season.
Magic control of day and night.
Day controlled by magic.
Day magically lengthened.
Druid causes sun to stand still for two days.
Supernatural person (adulterer) causes sun to stand still for nine months.
Day magically shortened.
Day produced by magic.
Night controlled by magic.
Night produced by magic.
Night magically lengthened.
Night magically shortened.
Earth darkened because of Sun's defeat in race against Coyote.
Saint banishes night for a year.
Magic control of clouds.
Cloud magically made to cover sun.
Cloud magically appears.
A cloud evoked by a saint.
Earth magically caused to quake.
Angel causes earth to quake, releasing prisoners for saint.
Saint is able to produce earthquakes at will.
Stopping the eruption of a volcano by a saint.
Magic control of the elements--miscellaneous.
Thunderbolt magically produced.
Witch produces lightning.
Saint magically causes mountain to melt away.
Saint causes sun to come down and cook for him.
Magic control of gravitation.
Saint prevents rocks from falling.
Ring that has dropped into water rises to surface.
Rice paddies flooded or dried by toad's tears or laughter.
Magic control of heavenly bodies.
Magic control of rainbow.
Magic control of waters.
Saint regulates temperature of waters.
Waters made to dry up.
Wall of water magically warded off.
Magic control of seas.
Sea produced by magic.
Tide held back.
Tide held back by Virgin Mary.
Tide held back by saint.
Grave on shore rises with the tide.
Sea calmed by prayer.
Sea appears like flowery plain.
Magic control of rivers.
Direction of river's flow magically reversed.
River with flow magically divided.
Saint causes river to rise and overflow.
Rivers magically made dry.
Evil spirit holds back water.
Saint causes a river to freeze over in summer.
Stream magically appears.
River appears at prayer of desert travelers.
River magically widened.
Magic control of waves.
Magic tidal wave.
Dashing waves do not touch saint.
Magic calming of whirlpool.
Magic control of pond (tank).
Water raised from tank by singing.
Water raised from tank by burying ring in it.
Pond magically dried up.
Magic control of wells (springs).
Saint causes wells to fail.
Man makes all waters of spring flow into a small brass pot.
Magic control of lakes.
Saint causes lake to dry up.
Magic flood.
Magic control of mountains.
Magic leveling of mountain.
Magician able to cast mountains upon enemies.
Mountain magically blown away.
Magic heightening of mountain.
Mountain moved by saint.
Magic control of rocks.
Rock in sea created by magic.
Island created by magic.
Magic control over animals.
Magic power to make does give milk.
Miraculous increasing of milk from one cow.
Cow supplies sufficient milk for the saint and all his disciples.
Saint forces a beast (leopard, wolf) to bring back stolen child (domestic animal) to his mother (owner).
Wild boar reprimanded about its maraudings by saint.
Vicious snakes easily controlled by saint.
Saint orders a serpent which had bitten a man to withdraw its venom.
Snakes expelled from human body by saint's intervention.
Saint destroys disastrous insects.
Saint orders the cicadas to sing the praises of God or be silent, because they disturb his preaching.
Wolf is forced by saint to be substitute for eaten calf.
Saint causes cuckoo to call in winter.
Horses (oxen) from sea put temporarily into man's service.
Saint kills lion with his slipper.
Magic control of soil and crops.
Land made magically fertile.
Saint scratches surface of earth with his spear and treasures of gold and silver are revealed.
Magic quick growth of crops.
Rice grows in single day.
Magic quick growth of saint's crops.
Saint causes wheat to ripen prematurely in the time of a famine.
Withered and dead trees suddenly blossom at saint's command.
Apple trees bear as result of saint's blessing.
Tree regains life and verdure after treasure it hides in its roots is given away.
Miraculous speedy growth of a tree.
Poor soil transformed into lovely garden overnight.
Field cultivated and sowed by magic.
Magic control of fires.
Magic kindling of fire.
Fox produces fire by striking tail to ground.
Saint sets fire to stone.
Fire obeys the saints.
Control of conflagrations by a saint personally or by his relics.
Fire turns aside and refuses to catch hold of holy garments, wooden altars and similar sacred things.
Magician opens his eyes and forest burns for twenty-four miles in front of him.
Saint creates fire unnaturally when needed.
Saint kindles her lamp or candle without using fire.
Cooking and baking done without fire.
Magic extinguishing of fires.
Magic healing power.
Magic cure for specific diseases.
Magic cure of leprosy.
Magic cure for fever.
Woman's labor pains magically eased.
Magic cure of wound.
Steaks cut from live cow who heals herself by magic.
Flow of blood magically stopped.
Magic cure of burns.
Magic cure of physical defect.
Blindness magically cured.
Eyes torn out magically replaced.
Magic restoration of severed hand.
Magic cure of broken limbs.
Witch burns her child's legs for wood, then covers child with sheet and child is whole.
Baldness magically cured.
Feathered skin magically grafted to bald head.
Deafness magically cured.
Dumbness magically cured.
Magic restoration of cut-out tongue.
Lameness magically cured.
Lame animal magically cured.
Insanity magically cured.
Remedy for epilepsy.
Bad breath magically cured.
Sterility magically cured.
Barrenness magically cured.
Methods of magic cure.
Cure after following instructions received from saint in dream.
Cure by transferring disease to animal.
Disease transferred to object.
Ghost transfers boil to a post.
Saint transfers disease to his bell (bachall).
Saint transfers thorn in foot to rock.
Disease transferred to tree.
Cure by passing through earth at crossroads.
Person cured by repairing image that has same deformity.
Cure by passing patient through cleft of tree (other loop).
Animal buried alive to cure disease.
Animal burned to cure disease.
Cure by burning grain where man has died.
Baptism as magic cure.
Other religious ceremony as magic cure.
Disease cured by same thing (person) that caused it.
Only one person possesses power to heal certain wound.
Wound healed by same spear that caused it.
Wound healed only by person who gave it.
Fairy wounded by mortal is healed only by obtaining mortal's blessing.
Snake sucks poison from snake bite.
Healing with hair of dog that bit one.
Sorrowing father magically restored as lost son approaches.
Blindness cured by killing snake that caused it.
Cure by putting children on roof (in oven).
Magic cure during sleep.
Eating of human hearts as cure for insomnia.
Magic cure by bathing.
Magic cure by bathing in milk.
Wounds from poisoned arrows healed by bath of milk.
Magic cure by bathing in consecrated water (lake, etc.).
Cure by washing in dew.
Magic cure by lying on saint's shadow.
Magic cure by touching.
Magic healing by passing hand over affected parts.
Magic cure by licking.
Cure by putting lock of patient's hair in hole of post or tree, then plugging hole with wood.
Methods of magic cure--miscellaneous.
Barber begins to recover after he reveals raja's secret.
Magic cure by certain person.
Cure by holy man.
Cure by Virgin Mary.
Cure at shrine of Virgin Mary.
Cure by relic of Virgin Mary.
Cure by milk of Virgin Mary.
Severed limbs replaced by Virgin Mary.
Cure of spider bite by the Virgin Mary.
Terrible headaches cured by Virgin Mary.
Cure by deity.
Cure by Moses.
Cure by angel.
Cure by surviving twin.
Cure by seventh son of seventh daughter.
Diseases cured at particular time.
All diseases healed at birth of Christ.
Diseases cured in Messeanic era.
Diseases cured at holy man's birth.
Magic control of disease.
Saint ends epidemic by fasting.
Epidemic stops at river (sea) at saint's command.
Locality sanctified against pestilence (by angel) as result of prayer and fasting.
People living on mountain dedicated to angel free from plague.
Magic defense in battle.
Broken weapons magically restored.
Magic reinforcements.
Heavenly help in battle.
Virgin Mary intercepts an arrow in battle.
Magic mist as defense in battle.
Saint's prayer wins battle.
Saint's prayer brings large flight of birds carrying stones in talons.
Saint changes vicious king's heart to peaceful thoughts.
Letter read by holy man stops emperor from devastating country.
Obstructions magically produced before enemy.
Saint causes great forest to spring up between opposing forces.
Saint causes wall of cakes to spring up between opposing armies.
Enemy's army deceived by illusion produced by saint.
Saint's blessing brings victory.
Saint protects followers against bullets by stretching sheet over their heads.
Escapes by magic.
Escape by flying through the air.
Escape from drowning by drying up all waters.
Magic used to prevent pursuit.
Opening in house made by magic so as to escape.
Magic help from falling.
Corpse magically saved from corruption.
Food magically saved from corruption.
Book magically saved from decay.
Flowers magically kept from withering.
Magic used against poison.
Poison magically separated from drink.
Magic adhesion.
Object magically attaches itself to a person.
Seat (chair) caused to stick to person.
Tankard caused to stick to person's lips.
Person magically sticks to floor (ground).
Magic adhesion to monster (witch, ogre, etc.).
Magic adhesion to animal.
Magic adhesion to goose.
Magic adhesion to swan.
Magic adhesion to turtle.
Magic adhesion to hose.
Objects magically stick together.
Pitcher magically sticks to ground.
Cauldron magically sticks to wall.
Witch causes towel to adhere to wall.
Persons magically stick together.
Clothes cling supernaturally to body.
Man's feet fixed to pavement so that he cannot move until he makes vow.
Witch causes milk to stay in overturned pail.
Continuing magic acts.
Magic repetition.
Magic gift: power to continue all day what one starts.
Magic singing.
Magic dancing.
Cursing by magic.
Cursing by means of a well.
Saint's bachall used in cursing.
Magic satire (magic song) as curse.
Saint's bell used in cursing.
Curse magically changed to blessing.
Exorcising by magic.
Saint sanctifies locality against death.
Snakes banned by magic.
Lice banned by magic.
Evil spirit exorcised.
Evil spirit exorcised by burning fish.
Evil spirit exorcised by burning medicine.
Evil spirit exorcised by religious ceremony.
Evil spirit exorcised by saint.
Evil spirits exorcised by death of saint.
Demons in stone images driven out by holy man (saint).
Saint purifies spring by driving out demon.
Saint throws ink bottle at devil who annoys him.
Saint's breath drives away the devil.
Devil cast out of man possessed.
Magic book conjured away by throwing it on stream.
Burning cut hair to prevent witchcraft.
Exorcising invisible man by flailing air with peach branch.
Imprisoning by magic.
Demon enclosed in bottle.
Demons imprisoned by magic.
Demon imprisoned in pomegranate.
Evil spirits imprisoned in stone.
Evil spirits kept out by stone wall.
Objects produced by magic.
City built by magic.
Cattle produced by magic.
Pavilions produced by magic.
Animals created by magic.
Magic production of rabbits.
Noxious animals produced by magic.
People created by magic.
Ceremonial presents produced by magic.
Whatever goldsmith proposes to make comes into existence by itself in the forge.
Tree produced by magic.
Flower produced by magic.
Flow of cow's milk increased by licking saint's garment.
Flow of cow's milk increased by saint.
Flow of cow's milk increased by song (music).
Magic spinning.
People magically continue hurting themselves.
People magically made to strike selves blows aimed at another.
Magician carries woman in glass coffin.
Fairy personage (god?) houses mistress in crystal bower.
Cat in wood-pile prevents axe from cutting.
Magic disappearance.
Ability to disappear or appear at will.
Garment appears and disappears in reply to command.
Person vanishes.
Man disappears, leaving only his ring.
Village vanishes.
Roast ducks fly (by magic).
Work of day magically overthrown at night.
Supernatural agency moves new church foundation (or building materials) to another site, at night.
Flowers drop on washing hands.
Dung drops on washing hands.
Blighted garden magically restored to beauty.
Flower blooms when touched.
Saint causes fiery sword to come between hostile king and queen.
Magic dominance over animals.
Magic control of spirits (angels).
Additional magic manifestations.
Bottomless tub (vat) holds water through power of saint.
Tools sharpened through power of saint.
Person comes to life.
Saint cut into pieces or decapitated comes back to life.
Dead man re-enters body and speaks of experience in heaven.
Dead tree comes to life.
Dead animal comes to life.
Sun revived by own power after being killed by moon.
Resuscitation by beating.
Second blow resuscitates.
Resuscitation by striking with arrow.
Resuscitation by touching body during conjuration.
Resuscitation by decapitation.
Red thread on neck of person who has been decapitated and resuscitated.
Head of decapitated person is replaced backwards.
Resuscitation by jumping (stepping) over.
Resuscitation by stepping on corpse.
Resuscitation by dismemberment.
Resuscitation by burning.
Bone of man being burned jumps out of fire.
Resuscitation by boiling.
Resuscitation by sweating.
Resuscitation by stewing.
Resuscitation by stinging.
Resuscitation by licking corpse.
Resuscitation when snake licks bite he has inflicted upon his victim.
Resuscitation by tickling.
Resuscitation by withdrawal of wounding instrument.
Resuscitation by removal of poisoned apple.
Resuscitation by removal of poisoning cobra flesh from dead man's mouth.
Resuscitation when strangling corset-lace breaks.
Resuscitation by removal of poisoned comb.
Resuscitation by removal of poisoned slippers.
Resuscitation by sucking poison from wound.
Resuscitation by catching in snare.
Resuscitation my frightening dead.
Resuscitation by shouting at dead.
Resuscitation by command to arise.
Resuscitation by slinging against something.
Resuscitation by rough treatment--miscellaneous.
Resuscitation by biting victim's bone.
Resuscitation by rubbing victim's bones on ground.
Resuscitation by pricking anus.
Resuscitation by plucking the flower into which one is incarnated.
Resuscitation by felling the tree into which one is incarnated and splitting trunk into two parts.
Resuscitation by cutting off heads of birds which contained the soul of dead person.
Resuscitation by urinating on dead man's bone.
Resuscitation by striking with lightning.
Felled tree restored by reassembling all cut parts.
Limbs of dead voluntarily reassemble and revive.
Resuscitated eaten animal.
Eaten person resuscitated.
Insect swallowed by man comes out alive.
Animals which devour each other are restored to their original forms by command of a saint.
Dismembered pigs come alive again if only bones are preserved.
Resuscitation with missing member.
Cooked part of white cow is brown after resuscitation.
Resuscitation with misplaced head.
Resuscitation with head on backwards.
Resuscitation from fragments of body.
Resuscitation by sewing parts of body together.
Resuscitation by assembling members and leaving in cask for certain time.
Failure to resuscitate because of premature disturbance of members to be left in cask for certain time.
Resuscitation by replacement of soul.
Resuscitation by returning dead person's soul (breath) to body.
Resuscitation from excrement of one who has eaten person (animal).
Resuscitation from ashes of dead man.
Resuscitation from dust.
Resuscitation by magic charm.
Resuscitation by fetish.
Resuscitation by mummified dog.
Resuscitation of dead by making image of deceased of breadfruit wood.
Resuscitation by music.
Resuscitation by song.
Resuscitation by playing flute.
Resuscitation by blowing trumpet.
Resuscitation by playing violin.
Resuscitation by playing guitar.
Resuscitation by weeping (tears).
Resuscitation by universal weeping.
Resuscitation by shooting arrow.
Resuscitation by vigil at tomb.
Resuscitation by fasting.
Resuscitation by prayer.
Body placed in building and worshipped until it comes to life.
Resuscitation by nine-day dance and prayers.
Resuscitation by magic object.
Resuscitation by staff.
Staff of life and death.
Silver stick kills; gold one restores to life.
Leaves of life and death.
Fly-whisk of life and death.
Resuscitation by magic cauldron.
Resuscitation by magic bell.
Resuscitation by saint's bell.
Resuscitation by magic bachall.
Resuscitation by saint's bachall.
Resuscitation by magic cup.
Resuscitation by Holy Grail.
Resuscitation by candle.
Resuscitation by book.
Resuscitation by manuscript.
Resuscitation by perfume.
Resuscitation by heavenly fragrance.
Resuscitation by magic feather.
Resuscitation by piece of felt.
Resuscitation by magic robe (blanket).
Resuscitation by sacred relics.
Resuscitation by ring.
Resuscitation by magic bag.
Resuscitation by magic gold.
Resuscitation by animal's tail.
Resuscitation by yak's tail.
Resuscitation by magic stone.
Resuscitation by leaf.
Resuscitation from bird dung.
Resuscitation by magic baskets.
Resuscitation by handkerchief.
Resuscitation by kiss.
Resuscitation by breathing on corpse.
Resuscitation of cremated man by blowing on the ashes.
Resuscitation by talking to corpse.
Apparently dead persons revived when certain thing happens.
Resuscitation by wishing.
Resuscitation by smelling of moss.
Resuscitation by incantation.
Resuscitation by waving magic object.
Resuscitation by writing deity's name.
Resuscitation by magic--miscellaneous.
Resuscitation by passing helpful animal over corpse.
Resuscitation by bird flying over dead.
Resuscitation by reversing positions of two blocks of wood.
Resuscitation by touch of eagle.
Resuscitation by bathing.
Resuscitation by bathing in milk.
Resuscitation by wet cloth over corpse.
Resuscitation by water (in basket, overnight).
Resuscitation by holy water.
Resuscitation by dew from heaven.
Water of life and death.
Water of death.
Sun and moon steal wonderful tree which revives dead man or animal.
Resuscitation by salve (oil).
Resuscitation by magic liquid.
Resuscitation by magic milk.
Resuscitation by sprinkling ambrosia.
Resuscitation by herbs (leaves).
Resuscitation by magic apple.
Resuscitation by magic pill.
Resuscitation by magic powder.
Resuscitation by magic powder blown into nose.
Resuscitation by blood.
Resuscitation by animal's blood.
Resuscitation by raven's blood.
Resuscitation by spittle.
Resuscitation by wax from deer's ear.
Resuscitation by use of animal fat.
Resuscitation by gall of slain giant.
Resuscitation by supernatural person.
Resuscitation by a god.
Resuscitation by concerted effort of the gods.
Resuscitation by power of goddess.
Man sent back to earth by Death, for it is not yet his time to die.
Hero resuscitated by his bride, daughter of king of death.
Resuscitation by Christ.
Resuscitation by Virgin Mary.
Resuscitation by saint.
The cooked and revived child.
Resuscitation by holy man (priest, etc.).
Resuscitation by rabbi.
Resuscitation through prayers of holy man.
Resuscitation by prophet.
Resuscitation by demon.
Resuscitation by demon's entering corpse.
Resuscitation by magician.
Resuscitation by druid.
Resuscitation by fairy.
Resuscitation by animals.
Resuscitation by cuckoo.
Resuscitation by snake.
Resuscitation by relative.
Resuscitation by son.
Resuscitation by sister(s).
Resuscitation by brother.
Resuscitation by friends.
Resuscitation through ashes thrown on funeral pyre.
Resuscitation by warming dead man.
Resuscitation by laying flesh on pyre and covering with cloth.
Resuscitation by covering body for certain time.
Resuscitation by heavenly voice.
Resuscitation by carrying corpse to its home.
Deer foster parent of hero comes alive from its burial hill when youth returns to spot and carries him off to jungle again.
Resuscitation: ghosts deceived so that they cannot find way back to grave.
Resuscitation by polishing sword that contains dead man's life.
Means of resuscitation--miscellaneous.
Human bone, found in demon's stomach wrapped in silk with bow and arrow, becomes a boy.
Resuscitation of decapitated princess by hero by imitating ogre's actions of night before: passing sword three times up and down her
throat.
Resuscitation from touch of a child at his first walking.
Repeated resuscitation.
Body still warm restored to life.
Periodic resuscitation.
Slain warriors revive nightly.
Constant replacement of fighters.
Soldiers of magic army constantly revived.
Annual resuscitation of a god.
Nightly resuscitation of man with external soul.
Person dead during day, revived at night.
Woman alive by day, dead by night.
Slain pigs revive nightly.
Calf, slain at night, alive next day through power of saint.
King eaten every morning: revived daily.
Gradual resuscitation--one organ at a time.
Killed game revives and flies away.
Resuscitation impossible after certain length of time.
Resuscitation after great length of time.
Resuscitation even possible after three days.
Dead man tries in vain to come back to life.
Man kept alive by consecrated sword.
Resuscitation of wife by husband giving up half his remaining life.
One man prays either to keep friend from death or for both to die.
Husband resuscitated after wife's nose is cut off and thrown over grave.
Return from dead granted for definite time.
Man given ability to return to life if killed.
Cooked animal comes to life.
Roasted cock comes to life and crows.
Flayed animal resuscitated.
Bones wrapped in sheepskin inscribed with holy name revive.
Ashes of burnt hero revive.
Death thought sleep.
Resuscitation in order to baptize.
Resuscitated man relates visions of beyond.
Resurrection at Judgment Day.
Means of resuscitation learned.
Husband advised how to resuscitate his wife: lift her up and turn her around so her head rests upon the brick which had been under her
feet.
Man advised how to resuscitate his mother: break waternuts on her head: she would revive and live one year for each nut broken.
Student revives whole family following instructions given by demon.
Dead body incorruptible.
Resuscitation when murder is discovered.
Resuscitation after murderer is buried in the earth, wood laid over him, and a lighted lamp on its top.
Failure at resuscitation.
Attempted resuscitation fails because of overanxiety.
Dead sweetheart haunts faithless lover.
Dead sweetheart in the form of a white rabbit follows seducer.
Dead sweetheart appears to seducer every evening, even after he has married another woman.
Dead lover sets tasks.
Dead lover haunts faithless sweetheart.
Dead lover returns to dance with fickle sweetheart at her wedding.
The Dead Rider (Lenore).
Fatal kiss from dead.
Spells to recall dead lover.
Dead spouse's malevolent return.
Dead wife haunts husband on second marriage.
Dead wife returns to reprove husband's second wife.
Dead wife returns to reprove husband's second wife for abusing her step-children.
Dead husband returns to reprove wife's second husband (lover).
Dead husband returns to protest wife's spending his money.
Dead wife torments husband who has let her die of neglect.
Dead mother's malevolent return.
Mother haunts daughter.
Mother's ghost tries to tear daughter to pieces.
Dead mother haunts daughter who marries against mother's will.
Dead mother returns to invoke curse on murderer-son.
Ghost of murdered child.
Ghost of abortion.
Dead brother's return.
Dead brother reproves sister's pride.
The dead daughter reproaches her mother for putting her dowery into coffin.
Dead relative's malevolent return--miscellaneous.
"If I were not your next of kin." Return from dead to reveal murder.
Ghost tells name of murderer.
Ghost skeleton points lance at murderer.
Ghost light hovers over hiding place of body of murdered person.
Noise of chains leads to buried ghost.
Ghost returns to murderer, causes him to confess.
Return from the dead to slay wicked person.
Return from dead to slay own murderer.
Ghost returns to slay man who has injured it while living.
Ghost kills man who interferes with ghostly activity.
Ghost returns to slay enemies.
Ghost punishes injury received in life.
Ghost returns to demand vengeance.
Ghost slaps face of son who cheated him out of property.
Ghost stampedes stolen cattle being driven past his ranch.
Return from dead to avenge death (murder).
Ghost an unjustly executed man.
Return from dead to punish indignities to corpse, or ghost.
Ghost punishes person who mocks him.
Ghost returns to demand proper burial.
Dead man speaks demanding proper funeral rites.
Ghost returns because corpse was not properly burned.
Return from dead as punishment for trying to raise ghost.
Return from dead to punish theft of part of corpse.
Return from dead to punish theft of golden arm from grave.
Return from dead to punish theft of leg from grave.
Return from dead to punish theft of bone from grave.
Return from dead to punish theft of liver from man on gallows.
Return from dead to punish theft of skull.
Return from dead to punish theft of teeth.
Return from dead to punish kicking of skull.
Return from dead to punish disturber of grave.
Return from the dead to capture thief.
Corpse of saint sits up and looks at people who open grave and come to claim his body.
Return from dead to demand stolen property.
Return from dead to demand clothing stolen from grave.
Return from dead to demand ring stolen from corpse.
Return from dead to demand stolen children.
Return from the dead to warn thief that he will be punished.
Return from the dead because last will was not fulfilled.
Ghost appears at time of death, foils lawyer who is counterfeiting a will for the newly-deceased.
Ghost appears to remind his brother of the terms of his will.
Return from dead to demand money stolen from corpse.
Ghost drives away his relatives who are trying to get estate from his wife.
Ghostly noises disturb village until stolen church plate is returned.
Ghost seeks repayment of stolen money.
Dinner with the dead.
Dance with the dead.
Ghosts punish intruders into ghost town.
Ghosts punish intruders into mass (procession) of ghosts.
Ghosts attack bishop who has suspended priest for singing for all Christian souls.
Ghosts punish failure to provide for their wants.
Ghosts punish failure to sacrifice to them.
Ghost kills man who had had ghost exorcised for too short a time.
Vampire.
Vampire's power overcome.
Vampire's power overcome by endurance and prayer.
Hand of vampire severed by cutting off hand of drawn figure.
Vampire brought to life.
Vampire brought to life through endurance of punishment by her victim.
Prince plucks from grave of vampire a flower which later becomes a girl.
Vampire brought to life by being fed human food and drink.
Deeds of vampires.
Vampires eat corpses.
Ghosts roast girl daily in oven and devour her flesh.
Vampire milks cows dry.
Vampire sucks blood.
Ghost sucks people's breath.
Form of Vampire.
Vampire with elephant face.
Vampire with ass's ears.
Vampire with eyes of owls.
God with form and characteristics of vampire.
Vampire plant.
Ghost tries to kill person for food.
Ghosts flay corpse.
Ghosts eat corpse.
Ghosts seek firewood to roast man.
Bloodthirsty revenants--miscellaneous.
Corpse bites off woman's nose.
Ghosts may eat only female animals.
Wandering ghost makes attack.
Wandering skull pursues man.
Ghost's flying head attacks slayer.
Speaking skull tells about previous life, reveals future events, etc.
Hero attacked by revenant with half a head, carrying man with half a body.
Dead arises when shroud bursts and pursues attendant.
Coffin bursts; dead arises and pursues attendant.
Man attacked on Christmas night by dancing ghosts.
Ghost pursues man.
Ghost of witch in her coffin chases man.
Ghost beats living man with whip.
Ghost rides on man's back.
Adulteress returns from dead as devastating dragon.
Ghost drives priest into oven.
Meeting ghost causes misfortune.
Meeting ghost causes sickness.
Blow received from a spirit at night; that side paralyzed.
Ghost of father slaps son's face; a cancer grows there.
Ghost strikes man in face, making his mouth crooked.
Meeting ghost causes person to go mad.
Meeting ghost causes death.
Dead carry off living.
Ghost of suicide drags people into stream.
Ghost claims a life every seven years by drowning person in river.
Ghost leads people to commit suicide.
Dead tears living to pieces.
Ghost (revenant) kills by spewing water from his mouth on Hallowe'en.
Sea-ghosts.
Ghost brings disaster on sailors.
Sea-ghost predicting death.
Road-ghosts.
Ghost rides in cart.
Ghost rides behind rider on horse.
Ghost frightens people off bridge into stream.
Ghost chases pedestrian on road.
Ghost misleads traveler on road.
Churchyard ghosts.
Ghosts prevent burial of corpse.
Gallows ghost.
Ghost haunts place of great accident or misfortune.
Ghost haunts mine after tragedy.
Ghosts haunt tree.
Ghosts haunt spring.
Malevolent revenants--miscellaneous.
The ghost haunts outside at night in human shape.
Ghost disturbs sleeping person.
Ghost pulls bedclothing from sleeper.
Ghost haunts park, terrifies watchers.
Ghost violently brands drunkard with "D".
Ghost punishes person who molests him.
Ghosts blow smithy into air.
Ghosts haunt house.
Ghost kills man who stays in haunted house.
Hungry ghosts haunt house seeking food.
Ghostly horse enters house and puts hoofs on breast of sleeper.
Ghost haunts particular room in house.
Ghosts haunt castle.
Ghosts haunt church.
Ghost haunts cloister.
Ghost haunts well, prevents drawing water after dark.
Ghosts protect hidden treasure.
Person burying treasure kills person to supply guardian ghost.
Form of treasure-guarding ghost.
Ghost in human form guards treasure.
Ghost animal guards treasure.
Ghost causes storms.
Ghosts frighten people (deliberately).
Ghost scares thief, prevents theft.
Ghost scares card players.
Miscellaneous acts of malevolent ghosts.
Ghost causes machinery to run unattended.
Ghost prevents removal of box from abbey.
Ghost upsets farmers' wagons.
Ghost breaks windows.
Ghost unties boats, setting them adrift.
Return from dead to return and ask back love tokens.
Dead husband's friendly return.
Dead husband sends his ring to his wife.
Dead husband returns and lives with his wife.
Dead husband returns, helps wife knit socks, piece quilts.
Dead man visits his wife every night.
Dead husband returns, asks wife to make him coffee.
Ghost often visits his widow and her new husband.
Ghost appears often to wife and daughter.
Dead wife's friendly return.
Dead wife returns and bears children for husband.
Dead wife returns to wake husband.
Dead wife returns and asks husband to go with her to spirit world.
Wife in heaven by day, with husband by night.
Dead wife returns in form of bird.
Man carries his dead wife with him.
Dead wife returns to live with her husband until his death.
Dead wife returns to another person to have him write a letter to her husband.
Return from dead and remarriage to husband.
Man talks to dead wife in grave.
Dead mother's friendly return.
Dead mother returns to see baby.
Dead mother returns to suckle child.
Dead mother returns to care for neglected baby.
Dead mother returns to aid persecuted children.
Dead mother (in animal form) returns to aid persecuted children.
Dead mother called up from grave to give her son charms.
Advice from dead mother.
Mother returns to search for dead child.
Mother returns to encourage daughter in great difficulties.
Dead mother makes son strong.
Dead child's friendly return to parents.
Voice of son answers his mother from the grave only when called by his pet name.
Ghost family visits grave of father.
Dead sister's friendly return.
Dead brother's friendly return.
Dead father's friendly return.
Dead father returns to daughter to stop her weeping.
Dead father returns to encourage daughter in childbirth.
Dead father returns to clear son's name of crime.
Ghost of father returns to rebuke child.
Dead father returns in form of bird.
Non-malevolent road ghosts.
Ghost appears at road and stream.
Person meets ghost on road.
Ghost on road asks traveler for ride.
Ghost rides on horseback with rider.
Ghost rides in carriage, disappears suddenly at certain spot.
Ghost asks for ride in automobile.
The Vanishing Hitchhiker.
Deity as ghostly rider.
Non-malevolent churchyard ghost.
Non-malevolent ghost haunts scene of former misfortune, crime, or tragedy.
Ghost haunts scene of former crime or sin.
Ghost haunts burial spot.
Ghost of murdered person haunts burial spot.
Ghost of person killed in accident seen at death or burial spot.
Ghost of tragic lover haunts scene of tragedy.
Ghost of person abandoned by faithless lover.
Ghost of suicide seen at death spot or near by.
Ghost of soldier haunts battlefield.
Non-malevolent mine ghosts.
Helpful mine ghosts.
Mine ghosts annoy miners.
Ghost reenacts scene from own lifetime.
Sounds of re-enacted actions.
Murder sounds heard just as they must have happened at time of death.
Sounds of accident re-enact tragedy.
Sounds of revelry heard.
Sounds of driving cattle: horse's hoofs, whip-popping, calling to cattle, rattle of spurs: ghost of slain cowboy.
Re-enactment of tragedy seen.
Lovers' tragedy re-enacted.
Non-malevolent ghost haunts building.
Non-malevolent ghost haunts house or castle.
Non-malevolent ghost haunts church.
Non-malevolent ghost haunts cloister.
The grateful dead.
Dead grateful for having corpse ransomed.
Dead grateful for having been spared indignity to corpse.
Dead grateful for food.
Dead grateful for prayers.
Dead grateful for clothes (shirt).
Grateful priest returns to save gambler from devil.
Dead return to fulfill bargain.
Dead returns to repair injury.
Dead returns to replace boundary marks he has removed.
Dead returns to repay money debt.
Dead returns to restore stolen goods.
Dead man asks that certain girl be married to him because in life he seduced her.
Return from the dead to stop weeping.
Tear from upper world of mortals falls on departed in lower world.
Return from dead to give consoling message.
Dead son tells mother that no mortal escapes death.
Ghost returns to aid living.
Ghost aids living in emergency.
Ghost substitutes for bride on her wedding journey.
Ghost returns to protect the living.
Ghost warns the living.
Dead reassures living.
Dead provide material aid to living.
Ghost of murdered girl appears and lends jewels needed for a ball in exchange for flowers.
Ghost aids living otherwise.
Dead returns to say farewell.
Return from dead to ask forgiveness.
Return of the dead to grant forgiveness.
Return from dead to give counsel.
Laughing skull advises hero.
Hanged man warns youth against visiting sweetheart.
Talking bones of eaten man advise hero.
Return from dead to preach repentance.
Person who has spent two years in hell speaks of importance of religious experience.
Saint returns from dead to give blessing.
Return from dead to prophesy coming of Christ.
Return from dead to convert to Christianity.
Ghost of woman chides unbeliever.
Pupil returns from dead to warn master of futility of his studies.
Return from dead to reveal hidden treasure.
Return from dead to reveal whereabouts of stolen goods.
Return from dead to repeat forgotten epic.
Poet sings day after his death.
Return from the dead to seek hidden treasure.
Ghosts bestow gifts on living.
Money received from ghosts as reward for bravery.
Sword received from summoned dead father.
Woman's hand rises from grave and gives man performing vigil letter of salvation.
Dead returns to supply tribe with money demanded by landlord.
Dead returns to life and tells of journey to land of dead.
Return of the dead to keep promise and tell of land of the dead.
Return from dead to prevent flight of thief.
Ghost returns to confess misdeed.
Saint returns from dead to exonerate cleric.
Return from dead to teach living.
Dead poet leaves grave mound to teach poem to herdsman: latter becomes great poet.
Friendly return from the dead--other motifs.
Return from dead to rescue from drowning.
Anchorite's body rises out of river in favor to disciple.
Return from dead to protect friends.
Ghost as confederate of man.
Return from dead to make up enough men to perform ritual.
Summoning souls punished: in hour of man's death they overwhelm him.
Ghost summoned by weeping.
Ghost summoned by pouring blood of sacrifices into trench.
Ghosts summoned by sacred book.
Ghost summoned by music.
Ghost summoned by beating drum.
Ghost raised inadvertently by whistling.
Ghost summoned by blast on horn (whistle).
Vigil of husband at wife's grave calls her forth.
Husband ignored or discouraged by ghost wife.
Other means of summoning ghost.
Ghost summoned by holy water.
Ghost summoned by charm.
Ghosts summoned by calling them by name.
Walking around a grave twelve times backward will raise the ghost.
Light remark about what person would do if ghost appeared causes ghost to appear.
Reasons for summoning of ghosts.
Ghost summoned in order to talk to it.
Dead called from their graves to make statement.
Ghost summoned to get something from it.
Father summoned to get his sword.
Ghost summoned for purposes of necromancy.
Ghost summoned--miscellaneous.
Ghost must be summoned by king else he appears head downward.
Summoned ghost audible and visible only to person who has summoned him.
Voices of dead heard from graveyard.
Ghostly voice heard on battlefield.
Mysterious ghostlike noises heard.
Noises caused by ghost of person.
Vocal sounds of ghost of human being.
Ghost calls.
Ghost moans.
Ghost cries and screams.
Ghost sings.
Ghost snores.
Ghost sobs.
Footsteps of invisible ghost heard.
Invisible ghost plays musical instrument.
Ghost sounds conch shell.
Invisible ghost jingles chains.
Invisible ghost makes rapping or knocking noise.
Crash as of breaking glass, though no glass is found broken.
Ghost slams door.
Miscellaneous sounds made by ghost of human being.
Sounds made by invisible ghosts of animals.
Crowing of ghost rooster.
Braying of ghost donkey.
Hoofbeats of ghost horse.
Sound made by ghostly object.
Sound of ethereal music.
Ground trembles or rumbles when ghost rises from grave.
Ghost shakes off earth when he rises from grave.
Dead cannot rest because of sin.
Hand of sinner sticks out of grave.
Unquiet dead sinner taken to priest for absolution.
Return from dead to do penance.
Unconfessed person cannot rest in grave.
Horse unable to draw evil dead man.
Dead body cannot be moved from where it lies.
Sinner wanders between earth and heaven.
Other dead drive sinner from graveyard.
Rich man dragged from grave by demons in hallowed ground and flung into grave in unblessed ground.
Earth rejects buried body.
Demons cast evil man from grave leaving only his shroud.
Saint's body miraculously moves so that it is laid properly north and south, not northeast and southwest.
Murderer cannot rest in grave.
Suicide cannot rest in grave.
Suicides must walk the earth until time for their natural death.
Adulterous person cannot rest in grave.
Priest's concubine cannot rest in grave.
The devil's concubine haunts after her death.
Perjurer cannot rest in grave.
Usurer cannot rest in grave.
Swindler cannot rest in grave.
Person who never said "good morning" cannot rest in grave.
Monk who dies without his cowl cannot rest in grave.
Pilate appears periodically at Mt. Pilatus and washes his hands.
Magician who has sold his soul to the devil hires his servant to bury him properly: the coffin bursts.
Persons who die violent or accidental deaths cannot rest in grave.
Person under religious ban cannot rest in grave.
Excommunicated person cannot rest in grave.
Unbaptized person cannot rest in grave.
Unchristened person cannot rest in grave nor enter heaven.
Mother of unbaptized child cannot rest in grave.
Dead without proper funeral rites cannot rest.
Dead man comes back because he was buried without a cap.
Naked ghost asks for shirt and promises luck on market for man.
Ghost asks to wash his shirt.
Dead man asks for shoes (was buried without them).
Child cursed by father cannot rest in grave.
Ghost of church desecrator cannot rest.
Murdered person cannot rest in grave.
Drowned person cannot rest in peace.
Person otherwise killed by accident cannot rest in grave.
Dead cannot rest until certain work is finished.
Ghost returns to hunt lost article.
Ghost unlaid until iron he hid in life is found.
Return from dead to uncover secretly buried treasure.
Dead rich man returns to rebuke his children who have kept the money he promised to the church.
Ghost of priest cannot rest because he failed to say certain masses for the dead.
Dead cannot rest until money debts are paid.
Man who removes landmarks cannot rest in grave.
Dead person speaks from grave.
Other restless dead.
Soul wanders and demands that a temple be built for him.
Dead find no rest since someone daily knocks at grave.
Dead find no rest since grass is pulled on grave.
Dead move when cemetery is moved.
Dead arise when one plays organ for first time in church.
Lovers buried apart found in one grave each morning.
Person with missing bodily member cannot rest in grave.
Ghost returns to enforce its burial wishes or to protest disregard of them.
Ghost flits between two graves reputed to contain body.
Concern of ghost about belongings of its lifetime.
People who bury metal cannot rest in grave.
Fate of ghosts of persons eaten by tigers.
Spectral ghosts.
Invisible ghosts.
Ghost visible to one person alone.
First-born of a family cannot see ghosts.
Persons born at midnight can see ghosts.
Only sorcerers can see ghosts.
Ghost visible to horses alone.
Ghost visible to dogs alone.
Ghosts visible only to sheep.
Ghosts visible only to seals.
Ghost visible only to wild fowls.
Ghosts cast no shadow.
Ghost leaves no footprints.
Luminous ghosts.
Ghost as glowing wheel.
Ghost as firebrand.
Ghost with glowing face.
Ghost as fiery bull.
Ghosts in glowing wagon.
Ghosts as dogs with glowing tongues and eyes.
Flames issue from corpse's mouth.
Ghosts as shadow.
Ghost seen by two or more persons; they corroborate the appearance.
The living corpse.
Hanged man thirsty; demands water to drink.
Body of living corpse.
Headless revenant.
Two-headed ghost.
Revenant with ball of fire in place of head.
Actions of headless revenant.
Headless ghost rides horse.
Headless ghost carries head under arm.
Armless revenant.
Revenant with ice-cold hands.
Revenant with cold lips.
Revenant with bad breath.
Revenant with chicken feet.
Ghost with feet twisted backward.
Revenant with thin legs.
Revenant with chip of resin between teeth.
Revenant with peculiar nails.
Living corpse returns every night, shows gradual wasting away of body.
Dismembered corpse.
Dismembered corpse reassembles.
Revenant as part of body.
Revenant as an eye.
Revenant as face or head.
Ghost as hand or hands.
Revenant as skeleton.
Revenant as blood.
Ineradicable bloodstain after bloody tragedy.
Color of revenant.
Revenant red.
Revenant green.
Revenant gray.
Revenant black.
Size of revenant.
Revenant as small man.
Revenant as a very large man (giant).
Dress of revenant.
Revenant with hat of birch.
Ghost with bonnet pulled down over her face.
Ghost in white.
Revenant in female dress.
Revenant in male dress.
Revenant in red cap.
Revenant in animal form.
Revenant as domestic animal.
Revenant as dog.
Color of ghostly dog.
Features of ghostly dog.
Headless ghostly dog.
Human-headed ghostly dog.
Revenant as cat.
Revenant as horse.
Revenant as three-legged horse.
Revenant as mare.
Revenant as headless horse.
Revenant as white horse.
Actions of ghostly horse.
Revenant as ass.
Revenant as swine.
Revenant as lamb.
Revenant as ram.
Revenant as cow.
Revenant as calf.
Revenant as goat.
Revenant as wild animal.
Revenant as bear.
Revenant as rabbit (hare).
Revenant as fox.
Revenant as hedgehog.
Revenant as seal.
Revenant as deer.
Revenant as wolf.
Revenant as rat.
Revenant as "man-monkey".
Revenant in tiger form.
Revenant as mouse.
Revenant as squirrel.
Revenant as bird.
Revenant as dove.
Revenant as swan.
Revenant as partridge.
Revenant as raven.
Revenant as owl.
Revenant as hen.
Revenant as goose.
Revenant as crow.
Revenant as sea-gull.
Revenant as duck.
Revenant as bean-goose.
Revenant as frog.
Revenant as snake (serpent).
Revenant as centaur.
Revenant as fly.
Revenant as spider.
Revenant as eel.
Revenant as dwarf.
Revenant in human form.
Revenant as woman.
Revenant as lady in white.
Revenant as naked woman.
Revenant as seductive woman.
Revenant as woman carrying baby.
Revenant as woman riding hog.
Revenant as horrible female figure.
Revenant as woman with seal's head.
Revenant as man.
Revenant as old man.
Revenant as man with horse's head.
Revenant as priest or parson.
Revenant as American Indian.
Revenant as piper.
Revenant as child.
Revenant as object.
Ghost in shape of a bag.
Revenant as a rolling cask.
Precautions at funeral against revenant.
Test for presence of demons in corpses.
Burial service read into hat to prevent dead walking.
Water thrown on corpse to prevent return.
Mould thrown on corpse to prevent return.
Coffin carried through hole in wall to prevent return of dead.
Limbs of dead fettered to prevent return.
Turf laid on breast of dead to prevent return.
Beheaded man's head laid at feet to prevent return.
Beheaded man's head laid at back to prevent return.
Decapitating in order to prevent return.
Head of beheaded man separated from body (by walking between them) to prevent return.
Dog buried alive to prevent ghosts from walking.
Ashes of dead thrown on water to prevent return.
Head of corpse thrown on water to prevent return.
Corpses thrown in water to prevent return.
Corpse buried under stone so that sun will not shine on him again.
Corpse buried under stones.
Coin placed in mouth of dead to prevent return.
Pins stuck in soles of dead man's feet to prevent return.
Corpse burned to prevent return.
Tall wall around grave to prevent return.
People touch corpse before burial to avoid seeing ghost of dead person after burial.
Burial of suicide to prevent walking.
Suicide buried head (or face) downward.
Suicide buried with stake through heart (body).
Suicide buried at crossroads.
Criminals buried at crossroads to prevent walking.
Body cut up and buried in vessels, buried in bag.
Burial of corpse at midnight to prevent walking.
Coffin with iron band made to keep corpse from returning as tiger.
Ghost deceived.
Haunting ghost deceived so that he cannot find road to return.
Dead man visiting wife deceived by wife's absurd actions--"no more absurd than ghost visiting wife".
Woman drying hair scares soul returning from the dead.
Ghosts placated by sacrifices.
Mould put on table for the dead.
Possessions buried with dead.
Animals sacrificed so that dead have food on way to other world.
Ghosts pleased by human sacrifices.
Ghosts killed by sacrifice of buffaloes.
Magic protection against revenants.
Hiding from ghosts under church bell.
Hiding from ghosts in pulpit.
Ghosts cannot cross rapid stream.
Ghosts cannot pass crossroads.
Steel as protection against revenants.
Keys as protection against revenants.
Knives as protection against revenants.
Ghost cannot pass cross or prayerbook.
Ghost cannot harm person wearing a cross.
Candle light protection against ghost.
Ghost cannot cross new door sill.
Ghost detected.
Ghost detected by strewing ashes.
Cats crossing one's path sign of ghosts.
Bats flying in house sign of ghosts.
Revenants banished.
Revenants banished to glaciers and uninhabited places.
Ghost laid in body of water.
Ghost driven into body of dead crow, buried under path.
Ghost laid under stone.
Ghost laid under tree.
Ghost laid and confined inside building.
Ghost laid and confined in sheepfold.
Other protection against revenants.
Revenant forced away by shooting.
Dwarfs magically keep ghosts from rising.
Dog saves man from malevolent living corpse.
Seeds of poppy poured into revenant's mouth.
Revenant forced away by fire.
Ghosts cannot come near spayed bitch.
Ghost will not approach a light left burning.
Ghost will vanish if seer walks around it nine times.
Ghost will not return if door is removed and hung backwards.
Ghost will not come near person who anoints self with new honey.
Ghost laid by reburial.
Ghost laid when leg is buried.
Ghost laid by placing stones in throat of the corpse.
Corpse exhumed and heart cremated to lay ghost.
Ghost laid by piercing grave (corpse) with stake.
Hunting woman beaten with sticks of rowan-tree and ankles of corpse tied with branches of same tree.
Ghost laid by burial outside village on far side of stream, with four iron nails driven into the corners of the grave.
Ghost exorcized and laid.
Laying ghost causes great storm.
Protection during ghost-laying ceremony.
Ghost laid by blessing grave.
Ghost laid by prayer.
Ghost laid by saying masses.
The dead man: "Sell my golden teeth and pay for a mass for my soul."
Ghost laid by formulistic prayer.
Ghost laid by confessor to priest.
Ghost laid by priest (minister).
Ghost laid by group of ministers.
Ghosts exorcized by name.
Ghost laid by raising a cross.
Ghost laid by adjuring it to leave "in the name of God." Ghost laid by baptizing children in its presence.
Ghost laid by fasting.
Ghost laid by Bible.
Ghost laid by consecrated water.
Ghost laid by talisman.
Ghost laid by barring off.
Ghost comes through certain crevice: when this is barred she never returns.
Ghost killed and thus finally laid.
Corpse magically killed and laid.
Ghost laid by burning body.
Ghost laid by burning lock of hair.
Ghost laid by decapitating body.
Ghost laid by beating body to pieces.
Slain ghost carried off by other ghosts.
Ghost laid by pushing it into water.
Ghost finds rest when certain thing happens.
Ghost laid when crime has been confessed.
Corpse cannot be laid until after he has confided the secret of magic charms.
Ghost laid when penance is done.
Ghost laid when vow is fulfilled.
Ghost laid when living man speaks to it.
Ghost asked to identify self "in name of God." Ghost laid when treasure is unearthed.
Money must be distributed to beggars so that ghost may be laid.
Beggar's ghost laid when pig bought with money taken from him is brought to his grave.
Bearded woman ghost laid by shaving her.
Ghost laid when house it haunts is destroyed or changed.
Ghost laid when revenge is accomplished.
Ghost laid when rest of poem is recited.
Ghost laid at cockcrow (dawn).
Dead quiescent during day.
Ghost invisible during day.
Ghost transformed into animal.
Ghost is laid by giving it a never-ending or impossible task.
Man raises corpses and gets their shrouds, then "lays" them again.
Other exorcism practices.
Ghost demands a body and soul before it will agree to be laid.
Ghost laid when bones are brought to home country from foreign soil.
Ghost laid when its wishes are acceded to.
Ghost bound and jailed.
Ghost laid at midnight.
Ghost laid by burying bell from church in one pond, the clapper in another.
Ghost laid when his skull is thrown into the Ganges.
Fight of revenant with living person.
Revenant challenged to combat.
Fight of living person with dead in the grave.
Revenant overawed by living person.
Living man in dead man's shroud.
Revenant tricked or jeered into a bottle, corked up and put in safe place.
Revenant rewards its conqueror.
Revenants fight each other.
Two dead men struggle over living man.
Ghost kisses living person.
Revenant sleeps in same bed with living but without contact.
Cohabitation of living person and ghost.
Offspring of living and dead person.
Body in coffin moves so as to make room for his recently deceased friend.
Abode of animal souls.
Three worlds of dead.
Men must enter spirit world armed.
Land of the dead.
Spain as land of the dead.
Quarrel of dead and living causes removal of dead to own land.
Land of dead in lower world.
Old woman ruler of dead in lower world.
Houses in lower world of dead.
Land of dead across water.
Island of the dead.
Bridge to land of dead.
Frightening thing at bridge to land of dead.
Unstable bridge to land of dead.
Boat to land of dead.
Abode of dead in mountain.
Abode of the dead in hills, barrows.
Abode of the dead in stones.
Beautiful land of dead.
Avalon.
Ghost lives midway between heaven and earth.
Land of dead in one of the cardinal directions.
Land of dead in north.
Land of dead in west.
Land of dead in east.
Icy inferno.
Land of dead in sky.
Account book of men summoned to death kept in heaven.
Moon as land of dead.
Venus as land of dead.
Dead in house of cloud.
King of world of dead.
Land of shades.
Land of skulls.
Land of skeletons.
Glowing beds of dead.
Abode of the dead--miscellaneous.
Dead awaken after three days to new life and great wisdom.
Life in land of dead contrary to ours.
Forgetting Charon's fee.
Man's spirit in land of dead prophesies his own future death.
Dancing in afterworld.
Culture hero gambles with ruler of the afterworld: result, death or increase in game.
Judas Iscariot appears in midst of sea on rock washed alternately by fiery and icy waves.
Why living cannot go to land of the dead.
In land of dead the dead walk on grass without bending it and on mud without sinking.
Land of dead "in Abraham's bosom".
Inhabitants of land of dead have great thirst.
Procession of the dead.
Mass (church service) of the dead.
Dead men dance.
Ball game in lower world.
Wedding of the dead.
Ghostly marriage party.
Marriage (ceremony) to a ghost.
Ghosts gathered on a bridge.
Fighting warriors show the way of their past life and of their death.
Meetings of the dead--miscellaneous.
Gay banquet of the dead.
Orchestra of ghosts.
Pot so heavy with ghosts that girl cannot lift it.
Dead in lower world complain about odor of human visitor.
The Wild Hunt.
Leader of the Wild Hunt.
King as wild huntsman.
Nobleman as wild huntsman.
Rich man as wild huntsman.
Forester as wild huntsman.
Freemason as wild huntsman.
Saint as leader of wild hunt.
Historic or romantic hero as leader of wild hunt.
King Herla as wild huntsman.
Theodoric as wild huntsman.
Wild Edric as leader of Wild Hunt.
Woman as leader of wild hunt.
Herodias as leader of wild hunt.
Artemis as leader of wild hunt.
Hecate as leader of wild hunt.
Participants in wild hunt.
Knights in wild hunt.
Ladies in wild hunt.
Witches in wild hunt.
Courtisans in wild hunt.
Churchmen in wild hunt.
Soldiers in wild hunt.
Unbaptized children in wild hunt.
Wild huntsmen wander because of sin.
Wild huntsman wanders because of cruelty.
Wild huntsman wanders because of suicide.
Wild huntsman wanders because of parricide.
Wild huntsman wanders because of unshriven death.
Wild huntsman wanders for failure to keep fast day.
Wild huntsman wanders for hunting on Sunday.
Wild huntsman wanders because he wished to continue hunt after death.
Wild huntsman wanders for disturbing church service.
Wild huntsmen cannot die until evil in world has been made right and things return as they had been.
Wild huntswoman wanders because of murder of daughter.
Animals follow wild huntsman.
Animals in wild hunt reincarnation of murdered person.
Dogs in wild hunt.
Enormous pack of dogs in wild hunt.
Dogs with fiery tongues in wild hunt.
Dogs with fiery eyes in wild hunt.
Dogs with eyes hanging out over mouth in wild hunt.
Black dogs in wild hunt.
Three-legged dogs in wild hunt.
Winged dogs in wild hunt.
Dogs in single file in wild hunt.
Dogs on leash in wild hunt.
Baying dogs in wild hunt.
Wild huntsman's horse.
White horse in wild hunt.
Black horse in wild hunt.
Brown horse in wild hunt.
Horse in wild hunt breathes fire.
Horse with fiery eyes in wild hunt.
Two-legged horse in wild hunt.
Headless horse in wild hunt.
Boar (sow) in wild hunt.
One-eyed sow in wild hunt.
Blind wild boar in wild hunt.
Two ravens follow wild huntsman.
Owl (ghost of nun) in wild hunt.
Object of wild hunt's pursuit.
Wild hunter pursues a woman.
Naked woman pursued and cut in two by rider.
Prostitutes pursued in wild hunt.
Witches pursued in wild hunt.
Fairies pursued in wild hunt.
Wood-spirits pursued in wild hunt.
Unbaptized children pursued in wild hunt.
Animals pursued in wild hunt.
Hare pursued in wild hunt.
Deer pursued in wild hunt.
Ghostly warner of wild hunt's approach.
Personal appearance of wild huntsmen.
Wild huntsmen headless.
Wild huntsmen with deer-heads.
Wild huntsmen with heads on backward.
Wild huntsmen carrying skull under arms.
Wild huntsmen with entrails stringing from open bodies.
Wild huntsmen luminous.
Wild huntsmen exhale fire.
Wild huntsmen have fiery eyes.
Wild huntsmen leave fiery tracks.
Wild huntsmen surrounded by fire.
Wild huntsmen with long hair.
Clothing of wild huntsmen.
Wild huntsmen dressed in black.
Wild huntsmen dressed in red.
Wild huntsmen dressed in white.
Wild huntsmen dressed in ancient costume.
Wild huntsmen belted and tied up.
Wild huntsman with black fur cap and white staff.
Wild huntsmen invisible.
Objects as part of wild hunt.
Empty shoe follows wild hunt.
Worn-out broom at head of wild hunt.
Wagon accompanies wild hunt.
Time of appearance of wild hunt.
Wild hunt appears at night.
Wild hunt appears at midnight.
Wild hunt abroad until cockcrow.
Wild hunt appears on St. John's Night.
Wild hunt appears on stormy nights.
Wild hunt appears at certain seasons.
Wild hunt appears in winter.
Wild hunt appears between Christmas and Twelfth Night.
Wild hunt appears on feast-days.
Wild hunt appears periodically.
Wild hunt appears every seven years.
Wild hunt appears yearly at same moment.
Place of appearance of wild hunt.
Wild hunt appears in woods.
Wild hunt appears in churchyard.
Wild hunt appears at crossroads.
Wild hunt appears by body of water.
Wild hunt appears by hill or mountain.
Wild hunt appears in a field.
Wild hunt appears in old battlefield.
Wild hunt appears at desert spot.
Wild hunt appears at castle.
Wild hunt appears over city.
Wild hunt appears at old mill.
Phenomena at appearance of wild hunt.
Wild hunt heralded by noise.
Wild hunt heralded by detonation.
Wild hunt heralded by rattle of chains.
Wild hunt heralded by clash of swords.
Wild hunt heralded by ringing of bells.
Wild hunt heralded by music.
Wild hunt heralded by noise of horses.
Wild hunt heralded by stamping of horses.
Wild hunt heralded by neighing of horses.
Wild hunt heralded by baying of hounds.
Wild hunt heralded by shouts of huntsmen.
Wild hunt heralded by storm.
Wild hunt heralded by fire.
Course of wild hunt.
Wild hunt chases in air.
Wild hunt in air very close to ground.
Wild hunt courses in particular direction.
Wild hunt goes thrice around pond.
Wild hunt goes several times around a hill.
Wild hunt goes around the entire earth.
Wild hunt goes through houses when front and back doors are on a line.
Behavior of wild huntsmen.
Wild huntsman blows horn.
Wild huntsman has his horse beaten.
Wild huntsman makes people carry him on their backs.
Wild huntsman repays with leaves (shavings) that turn to gold.
Living smith must repair wagon belonging to wild hunt.
Behavior of wild huntsman's dogs.
Wild huntsman asks people to hold his dogs.
Wild huntsman turns his dogs loose on those he meets.
Bite of wild huntsman's dogs drives other dogs mad.
Wild huntsman's dogs cannot pass over grave.
Wild huntsman's dog cannot be dislodged from house it has entered.
Wild huntsman's dogs eat dough, bread, meal, etc.
Wild huntsman's dog when seized becomes stick (black coal).
Wild huntsman waters his horse.
Wild huntsman lives in room on farm.
Phenomena at disappearance of wild hunt.
Wild hunt disappears with loud noise.
Wild hunt disappears with movement of tree tops.
Wild hunt disappears with blast of wind.
Wild hunt disappears in column of fire.
Wild hunt disappears during storm.
Evading or combating the wild hunt.
Wild hunt powerless against certain persons.
Wild hunt powerless against herdsmen.
Wild hunt powerless against churchmen.
Wild hunt powerless beyond certain range.
Wild hunt powerless at crossroads.
Wild hunt's power evaded.
Power of wild hunt evaded by prayer.
Power of wild hunt evaded by formula.
Power of wild hunt evaded by sacrificing to huntsman's dogs.
Power of wild hunt evaded by silence.
Wild hunt avoided.
Wild hunt avoided by keeping on one's road.
Wild hunt avoided by getting out of its course.
Wild hunt avoided by keeping in house with windows closed.
Wild hunt avoided by throwing self to earth.
Wild hunt avoided by staying within circle.
Wild hunt avoided by holding bread.
Wild hunt avoided by holding certain plant.
Sound of wild hunt avoided by sticking fingers in ears.
Wild huntsman pacified.
Wild huntsman pacified by sacrifice.
Wild huntsman pacified with food.
Wild huntsman released from wandering.
Wild huntsman released from wandering by mould from Christ's grave.
Wild hunt forced to depart.
Wild hunt frightened away by scolding.
Evil effects of meeting wild hunt.
Wild hunt harmful to certain persons.
Wild hunt harmful to mockers.
Wild hunt harmful to thieves.
Wild hunt harmful to the curious.
Wild hunt throws down man's dead child when asked for part of game.
Wild hunt throws human flesh on persons who see it.
Wild hunt throws horses' feet on persons who see it.
Wild hunt carries person off.
Wild hunt throws person to ground.
Sight of wild hunt renders person insane.
Sight of wild hunt blinds person.
Sight of wild hunt causes swelling of head.
Sight of wild hunt causes one to stick axe or knife in foot.
Sight of wild hunt causes death.
Remedy for effects of seeing wild hunt.
Effects of wild hunt remedied by seeing it a year later in same place.
Effects of wild hunt remedied by asking the huntsmen for salt.
Effects of wild hunt remedied by asking the huntsmen for parsley.
Effects of wild hunt remedied by asking to partake in booty of hunt.
Effects of wild hunt remedied by eating part of flesh thrown down by it.
Effects of wild hunt remedied by prayer.
Wild hunt as omen.
Wild hunt as omen of disaster.
Wild hunt as omen of war.
Wild hunt as omen of pestilence.
Wild hunt as omen of plentiful year.
Wild hunt as weather omen.
The Sleeping Army.
The Flying Dutchman.
Reason for Flying Dutchman's punishment.
Flying Dutchman sails because of cruelty.
Flying Dutchman sails because of pact with Devil.
Flying Dutchman sails because he defied the storm.
Flying Dutchman's ship.
Flying Dutchman has dead men as sailors.
Phantom cart driver wanders because of blasphemy.
Ghost of domestic beast.
Ghost of horse.
Headless ghost of horse.
Three-legged ghost of horse.
Ghost of race horse wins race in competition with living horses.
Ghost of dog.
Ashes of dead dog speak.
Headless ghost of dog.
Ghost of cat.
Ghost of calf.
Ghost of hog.
Headless ghost of hog.
Ghost of sow.
Ghost of wild beast.
Ghost of fox (Cf.
Ghost of bear.
Ghost of fish.
Ghost of bird.
Ghost of goose.
Ghost of cock.
Cooked cock crows.
Ghost-like lights.
Ghost light follows ghost.
Ball of fire haunts murderer.
Ghost light haunts burial spot.
Ghost light on farm indicates that occupants will move shortly.
Ghost light indicates impending calamity.
Ghost light serves as death omen.
Ghost light indicates route funeral will take.
Ghost-like building.
Ghost-like picture.
Ghostly bell.
Ghostly bell sounds from under water.
Self-tolling bell.
Phantom spinning-wheel makes noise.
Ghostlike conveyance (wagon, etc.).
Phantom coach and horses.
Ghostly wagon.
Ghost ship.
Phantom canoe.
Phantom boat.
Phantom railway train.
Ghoulish ghost objects.
Spectral coffin.
Ghostly rope of suicide appears.
Other ghostly objects.
Oven door jumps into room; money thought to be under spot where it lands.
Pot jumps in house to indicate money hidden underneath it.
Ghostly wool-packs roll over fields, down hill.
Ghostly chair.
Ghostly chair in cellar jumps up and down on three legs, points with fourth at spot on floor.
Coal in bin jumps around and gurgles.
Revenants eat.
Food placed out for returning souls of dead.
Ghost eats living human beings.
Dead come forth and eat grave-offerings.
Revenants drink.
Amputated head asks for drink.
Dead beg food from living.
Dead man touches living.
Ghostly fingers leave mark on person's body.
Ghostly fingers leave mark on man's hand.
Ghost touches man's neck, leaves impression of hand on neck.
Ghost strikes man on mouth; leaves his mouth crooked.
Ghost strikes man on face.
Ghost strikes man on face: cancer grows there.
Ghost strikes man on face: marks remain permanently.
Dead man's hand touches birthmark and thus removes it.
Ghost throws man into ditch, leaving his side numb.
Ghost touches man's hat, scorching it and turning lock of his hair white.
Dead drag boat to strand.
Ghost leaves evidence of his appearance.
Ghost leaves object after appearance.
Ghost leaves behind a crucifix.
Ghost leaves a ring with the living.
Ghost of drowned man leaves puddle of salt water where he stands.
Ghost pulls off blanket from sleeper.
The dead speak.
Words uttered from the tomb.
The dead are silent.
Conversation between the dead.
Dead predict death.
Dead announce own death.
Dead will not speak of their condition.
Questions to dead are dangerous.
Dead speak on Hallowe'en.
Thirsty when hanged, corpse asks for water on Hallowe'en.
Holy man converses with entombed dead.
Fairy converses with dead.
Dead holy man begs grave-digger not to bury sinner on top of him.
Corpse exclaims over miracle.
Ghost chooses own requiem.
Ghost directs man to hidden treasure.
Man converses with dead.
The dead hear saint's bell.
Saint after his death gives directions where he wants to be buried.
Dead predict calamity or disaster.
Dead predict war.
The dead foretell the future.
Ghost asks to be taken to former home.
Addressing the dead.
The dead cannot speak until spoken to.
Proper means of addressing ghosts.
Part of ghost speaks.
Strand of hair from drowned woman speaks.
Heads of slain people in magician's house advises hero.
Conversation between God and Adam's corpse.
Dead must be answered in whispers.
The dead sing.
The dead wail (Cf.
The dead groan.
Dead make music on their ribs.
Dead man sobs.
Ghost in form of bear sneezes.
Ghost becomes log during day.
Ghost plays musical instrument.
Ghost plays organ.
Dead man smokes pipe.
Ghost drinks.
Ghost drinks liquor.
The dead man asks for whiskey.
Dead man writes.
Ghost writes on wall the answers to problems of person in trouble.
Ghosts forced to labor.
Dead person spins.
Sight of dead woman spinning drives people insane.
Dead person weaves.
Dead person knits.
Man who has died and returned to life becomes diviner.
Ghosts clank chains.
Dead person threshes.
Revenant lies down and sleeps.
Revenant leaves impression of body in bed.
Ghostly barber.
Ghost walks through solid substance.
Ghost tried in court.
Appearance of ghost serves as death omen.
Ghost as omen of calamity or ill fortune.
Dead man praises God.
Dead intercedes before God for mortal.
Dead persons play games.
Dead persons play ball.
Dead persons play cards.
Playing cards with a dead man (ghost).
Dead persons bowl.
Dead persons build fires.
Revenants want to warm themselves.
Ghosts warm themselves around fire.
Dead person rides.
Whirlwind as ghost's vehicle.
Ghost rides horse.
Ghost jumps on horse behind man.
Ghost rides cow.
Ghost rides bus.
Ghost rides on bus, disappears before it crosses bridge.
Ghost rides heavy iron chest.
Ghost rides giant demijohn.
Ghost sails over sound on bundle of straw.
Dead person drives horses.
Dead persons draw chariot.
Dead person visits earth periodically.
Dead person visits earth every seven years.
Spectre rides to castle every seven years.
Revenant revisits earth every day.
Revenant revisits earth nightly.
Revenant revisits earth yearly.
Dead returns soon after burial.
Ghost returns before burial.
Dead returns on burial day.
Dead returns third day after burial.
Dead return second day after burial.
Dead sent back to life because his name is not in heavenly roll.
Ghosts walk at certain times.
Ghosts walk at midday.
Ghosts walk on Hallowe'en.
Ghost most numerous on St. Thomas Eve and St. Thomas Day.
Ghosts walk from curfew to cockcrow.
Spirits are always in the air.
Ghost walk at midnight.
Ghosts walk at full moon.
Ghost leaves stench behind.
Ghost travels under ground.
Ghost carries burden.
Ghost carries own dead body.
Ghost carries coffin on back.
Ghost takes things from people.
Ghost steals collar of priest.
Ghost steals book from priest.
If no lamp is lighted in a house for a period of fourteen days, ghosts take it for their dwelling.
Ghost takes bones from grave.
Ghost steals food and treasure.
Dead man wanders with torch.
Cures by transferring disease to dead.
Living person in service of a dead man.
Ghost works for human being.
Corpse leaps up in emotion at saint's passing nearby.
Death and return to life rids man of disease.
Other actions of revenants.
Ghost searches for breath.
Ghostly corpses seen on floor of house, disappear when coroner comes.
Ghost watches (follows) its own corpse.
Ghost asks alms (from one who does not know that asker has died) at usual place and time.
Ghost travels swiftly.
Ghosts move furniture.
Ghost carries lantern.
Ghost vanishes when taken home.
Ghost seen in two places simultaneously.
Playful revenant.
Locked doors open at touch of ghosts.
Human being transported by a ghost.
Dead person bathes.
Origin of reincarnation: miscarried message of immortality.
Science of reincarnation taught.
Reincarnation: former lives remembered.
Man by magic sees his wives in their former incarnations as dog and sow.
Reincarnated benefactor helped by man he has befriended in former life.
Punishments earned on one life paid in next reincarnation.
Reincarnation in form determined at death.
Limited number of souls in world necessitates reincarnation.
Definite number of reincarnations.
Seven reincarnations.
Reincarnation in another human form.
Reincarnation with change of sex.
Reincarnation: woman reborn as man.
Man reborn as woman.
Reincarnation: god reborn as man.
Reincarnation: spirit reborn as man.
Reincarnation: man becomes god.
Reincarnation: man becomes spirit.
Reincarnation: prince becomes common man.
Reincarnation: common man becomes prince.
Man reincarnated as child.
Reincarnation as child which is within a fish.
Horse-headed men reborn as money-lenders.
Reincarnation as conjurer.
Reasons for reincarnation.
Reincarnation as punishment for sin.
Reincarnation to complete unfinished work.
Methods of reincarnation.
Bones of dead collected and buried.
Bones of dead collected and thrown into river.
Person transforms self, is swallowed and reborn in new form.
Person is swallowed and then reborn.
Rebirth by crawling into woman's womb.
Hauling canoe over dead man's body causes return from dead in new form.
Reincarnation by fasting.
Cauldron of regeneration (reincarnation).
Reincarnation: man to animal to man.
Reincarnation: boy to bird to boy.
Reincarnation: man to fish to man.
Reincarnation as domestic animal.
Reincarnation as horse.
Reincarnation: man as horse-head.
Reincarnation as donkey.
Reincarnation as cow.
Divinity reincarnated as cow.
Reincarnation as bull.
Divinity reincarnated as bull.
Reincarnation as bullock.
Reincarnation as an ox.
Reincarnation as calf.
Reincarnation as a buffalo.
Man reincarnated as swine.
Man reincarnated as wild boar.
Man reincarnated as goat.
Man reincarnated as cat.
God reincarnated as cat.
Man reincarnated as dog.
Reincarnation as wild animal.
Reincarnation as lion.
Reincarnation as wolf.
Reincarnation as hare.
Reincarnation as fox.
Reincarnation as deer.
Reincarnation as seal.
Reincarnation as mongoose.
Reincarnation as bear.
Reincarnation as hyena.
Reincarnation as jackal.
Reincarnation as elephant.
Reincarnation as monkey.
Reincarnation as rat.
Reincarnation as otter.
Reincarnation as bird.
Reincarnation of murdered child as bird.
Reincarnation of unbaptized child as bird.
Reincarnation of old maids as birds.
Reincarnation of drowned persons as birds.
Severed heads of monster become birds.
Reincarnation of girl eaten by tiger as bird.
Reincarnation as duck.
Reincarnation as sheldrake.
Reincarnation as owl.
Reincarnation as hawk.
Reincarnation as eagle.
Reincarnation as swallow.
Reincarnation as cuckoo.
Reincarnation as dove.
Reincarnation as pigeon.
Reincarnation as raven.
Reincarnation as quail.
Reincarnation as partridge.
Reincarnation as heron.
Reincarnation as crane.
Reincarnation as goose.
Reincarnation as peacock.
Reincarnation as parrot.
Reincarnation as reptile.
Reincarnation as snake.
Reincarnation as lizard.
Reincarnation as crocodile.
Reincarnation as tortoise.
Reincarnation as iguana.
Reincarnation as amphibian.
Reincarnation as frog.
Reincarnation as insect.
Reincarnation as bee.
Reincarnation as butterfly.
Reincarnation as flea.
Reincarnation as weevil.
Reincarnation as bedbug.
Reincarnation as fish.
Reincarnation as salmon.
Reincarnation as goldfish.
Reincarnation as shark.
Reincarnation as whale.
Reincarnation as worm.
Reincarnation as leech.
Reincarnation as animal--miscellaneous.
Reincarnation as scorpion.
Reincarnation as crab.
Reincarnation in plant (tree) growing from grave.
Twining branches grow from graves of lovers.
Tops of trees from lovers' graves show shapes of their heads.
Tablets made of trees from lovers' graves magically unite.
Flower from grave bears letters.
Flower with "ave" on leaves.
Plant from blood of slain person.
Red plant from blood of slain person.
Speaking and bleeding trees.
Tree from innocent man's blood.
Dry branch on innocent man's grave blossoms as proof of innocence.
Tree from sinner's grave.
Flower from grave.
Lily from grave.
Rose from grave.
Reincarnation as lotus.
Reincarnation as cockscomb.
Grass does not grow on murderer's grave.
Reincarnation as a grass straw.
Herbs grow from grave of healer.
Dead ogress reincarnated as bramble-bush which prevents escape of fugitive.
Reincarnation as plant.
Reincarnation as tobacco plant.
Reincarnation as peanut plant.
Reincarnation as eggplant.
Reincarnation in tree from grave.
Reincarnation as musical instrument.
Speaking bones of murdered person reveal murder.
Reincarnation as dish.
Reincarnation as fountain.
Reincarnation as water.
Reincarnation as bag of water.
Reincarnation as ball (of gold and iron).
Reincarnation as whirlwind.
Reincarnation as stone.
Reincarnation as salt.
Dead lovers are now two stones lying together.
Reincarnation as smoke.
Smoke from funeral fires of two lovers mingles in sky.
Reincarnation as rainbow.
Reincarnation as mineral.
Reincarnation of slain boy as gold and silver.
Reincarnation as meteor.
Reincarnation: man-object-man.
Reincarnation: woman - bird - nettles - stone - woman.
Reincarnation: man - woman - stone image.
Reincarnation to object--miscellaneous.
Reincarnation as hill.
Reincarnation as flour vat.
Reincarnation as hoe.
Reincarnation as hoe-handle.
Reincarnation as mussel shell.
Reincarnation as currants.
God reincarnated as dwarf.
God reincarnated as monster.
Reincarnation: man as nature spirit.
Reincarnation: man as water spirit.
Reincarnation: man as tree spirit.
Reincarnation: animal to man.
Men who behave irrationally (without plans) reincarnations of animals.
Reincarnation: animal to god.
Reincarnation: animal to other animal.
Reincarnation: man - object - object.
Reincarnation: body becomes marble wall; robe, grass; eyes, pools, etc.
Reincarnation: animal to object.
Reincarnation: snake into flowers.
Reincarnation as punishment.
Bad woman cursed to be reborn as bat.
Mean person reborn as hyena.
Tricky potter reborn as crab.
Jealous woman reborn as chilly.
Cruel woman reborn as firefly.
Youth reincarnated as root in punishment for incest.
Reincarnation for revenge.
Drowned girl reborn as leech to take revenge on murderers.
Woman reborn as bedbug to take revenge on husband.
Woman reborn as scorpion to take revenge on husband.
Reincarnation as compensation.
Hungry ghost reborn as jackal.
Frustrated woman reborn as tobacco plant.
Frustrated boy reborn as lizard.
Childless woman reborn as fish.
Gradual reincarnation--man to tiger.
Reincarnated person restored to original form.
Bird, reincarnated murdered girl, resumes her original form when persecutor's blood is poured on her.
Vulture eats only those who will be reborn as human beings in their next birth.
Names given the soul.
Soul of object.
Soul of the earth.
Soul of water.
Soul of tree.
Soul of fire.
Soul of corn.
Composition of the soul.
Creation of souls.
Soul forgets everything at birth.
Abode of unborn souls.
Person with more than one soul.
Soul sustained on pleasant odors.
Ferocious animal guardian of separable soul of ogress.
External soul avenges murder.
Soul kept in object.
Soul in egg.
Soul in three separate eggs.
Soul in plant.
Soul in calabash (gourd).
Soul in flower.
Soul in chilly plant.
Soul in pomegranate.
Soul in coconut.
Soul in bamboo.
Soul in jewel.
Soul in necklace.
Soul in sack.
Life in stick.
Soul in stone.
Soul in golden apple.
Soul in golden ball.
Soul in sword.
Soul in snow.
Soul in dice.
Soul in arrow.
Soul in axe.
Soul in bird cage.
Hidden soul (life).
Soul hidden in tree.
Soul hidden in safe.
Soul hidden in urn.
Soul hidden in box.
Soul hidden in pillar.
Soul hidden in fish basket.
Soul hidden in water bottle.
Soul hidden in a series of coverings.
Soul hidden in apple (ball) in a salmon which appears every seven years in certain fountain.
Soul (or life) kept in special part of body.
Soul (life) in the blood.
Serpent's life in its gold crown.
Soul in head.
Troll's life in his brother's forehead.
Soul (life) in the heart.
Eaten heart gives one the owner's qualities.
Soul (life) in the liver.
Soul (life) in the breath.
Soul (life) in left hand.
Soul (life) in thumb.
Monster with life in his neck.
Giant's soul in a mole in the hollow of his palm.
Ogre's soul in "pale spot" below his right ear.
Life (soul) in entrails.
Soul in hair.
Soul fastened to spine.
Separable soul kept in animal.
Separable soul in bird.
Separable soul in duck.
Separable soul in crop of sparrow.
Separable soul in parrot.
Ogre's life in parrot's feather in man's pocket.
Ogre with life in parrot, speaks from inside parrot.
Soul in crane.
Soul in starling.
Soul in raven.
Separable soul in fish.
Separable soul in insect.
Separable soul in bee.
Separable soul in fly.
Separable soul in hornet.
Separable soul in wild animal.
Separable soul in deer.
Separable soul in wolf.
Separable soul in walrus.
Separable soul in seal.
Separable soul in snake.
Separable soul in toad.
Separable soul in hydra's head.
Multiple separable souls: ogre's separable spirits live in a tree (plant), fish, honey bee.
Souls of human beings seen in dream.
Soul journeys from the body.
Mark inflicted on wandering soul seen on body after soul's return.
Soul wanders from body in sleep.
Sleeper not to be awakened, since soul is absent.
Soul of sleeper prevented from returning to his body.
Soul of sleeper prevented from returning when it is captured in animal form.
Soul of sleeper prevented from returning by moving the sleeper's body.
Soul of sleeper prevented from returning by burning the body.
Body dismembered so soul cannot return.
Soul of sleeper prevented from returning to his body when soul as bee leaves body and enters hole in wall beside which he is sleeping.
Frightened soul cannot return to body.
Body in trance while soul is absent.
Wandering soul cause of sickness.
Madness from spirit leaving body: comes back with cough.
Wandering soul detained by ghosts.
Wandering soul assumes various shapes.
Wandering soul assumes shape of wolf.
On return to body soul crosses on scythe-blade as bridge.
Soul leaves body to visit hell (heaven).
Soul leaves body to converse with dead.
Soul of embryo wanders.
Soul takes voyage.
Soul leaves body at death.
Form of soul as it leaves body at death.
Soul as black or white spirit over coffin.
Soul as black or white entity.
Soul leaves body as small point of light.
Soul leaves the body in form of bird.
Manner of soul's leaving body.
Soul borne away on cloud.
Soul borne away on wind.
Roof taken off above sick man who cannot die.
Condemned soul forked from body by Satan.
Saved soul leaps from body on hearing heavenly music.
Doors fly open when one dies.
Soul weeps when departing from body.
Soul reluctant to leave body.
Soul lingers in body at death.
Soul hovers over body, reluctant to part.
Dead friends come for dying man's soul.
Soul taken away by God (angel).
Chariot of gods bears astral bodies of dead to heaven.
Soul leaves body through eye.
Soul leaves body because of God's kiss on mouth.
Circumstances of soul on leaving dead body.
Soul cannot go far from grave.
Soul remains about dead body.
Soul wanders till corpse decays.
Soul visits places of birth, death, baptism, and burial after leaving body.
Wraiths of persons separate from body.
Person sees his own wraith.
Person sees his own wraith; the wraith saves his life.
Seeing one's wraith a sign that person is to die shortly.
Wraith takes place of person unable to do duty at the necessary time.
Wraith does what person wishes to do but is unable to do in the flesh.
Wraith returns to home and goes to bed while body is at home of friends in deep reverie.
Wraith of murderer tells authorities where to find girl he has murdered.
Wraith of debtor tries to find his creditor at time of death.
Wraith of dying woman goes to see children for last time before death.
Wraith gives information of death in family.
Wraith investigates welfare of absent person.
Wraith of sweetheart stays in room where lover has died.
Appearance of his wraith as announcement of person's death.
Actions of wraith.
Wraith speaks.
Wraith rings doorbell.
Wraith opens and closes door.
Wraith slams gate.
Wraith selects wood for coffin.
Wraith binds grain in field.
Wraith rides horse.
Wraiths of persons drowning appear in dripping clothes.
Appearance of wraith as calamity omen.
Wraith appears before mine disaster.
Soul leaves one body and enters another.
Soul leaves man's body and enters animal's.
Ghost possesses girl and she speaks in dialect unknown to her.
Soul enters body and animates it.
Soul received at birth.
Soul of unborn son comes out of mother's mouth (in form of stone), is kept by her, and later is given to son.
Soul reunited with body.
Relation of body to soul.
Debate of body and soul.
Soul curses body.
Soul as vital principle.
Body dependent on soul.
Evil spirit possesses person.
Evil spirit cast out of person.
Evil spirit cast out of person by killing and resuscitating.
Souls of animals.
Soul in form of mammal.
Soul in form of dog.
Soul in form of cat.
Soul in form of mouse.
Soul in form of weasel.
Soul in form of hare.
Soul in form of seal.
Soul in form of bat.
Soul in form of bear.
Soul in form of wolf.
Soul in form of fox.
Soul in form of lion.
Soul in form of hog.
Soul in form of bull.
Soul in form of deer.
Soul in form of bird.
Soul in form of dove.
Soul in form of crow.
Soul in form of hen.
Soul in form of magpie.
Soul in form of seagull.
Soul in form of eagle.
Soul in form of swan.
Soul in form of raven.
Soul in form of hawk, or falcon seen in dream.
Soul in form of reptile.
Soul in form of serpent.
Soul in form of insect.
Soul in form of butterfly.
Soul in form of bee.
Soul in form of spider.
Soul in form of wasp.
Soul in form of cricket.
Soul in form of beetle.
Soul in form of fly.
Soul in form of grasshopper.
Soul in form of fish.
Soul in form of amphibian.
Soul in form of frog.
Soul in form of toad.
Soul in form of a mythical animal.
Soul in form of dragon.
Soul in form of heavenly body.
Soul in form of star.
Shooting star signifies that someone is dying.
New star for each birth.
Star as sign of birth of hero.
Shooting star signifies a birth.
Soul as light.
Soul as taper (candle).
Soul as will-o-the-wisp.
Souls of dead as Aurora Borealis.
Soul as shadow.
Soul as smoke.
Soul as reflection or image.
Soul as weather phenomenon.
Soul as mist (fog).
Soul as cloud.
Soul as whirlwind.
Soul as object.
Soul as feather.
Soul as needle.
Soul as straw.
Soul as flower.
Soul as lotus flower.
Soul as fruit.
Souls as golden apples.
Soul as bulb.
Soul as ghi (clarified butter).
Soul as mannikin (child).
Soul as small replica of body.
The soul as a guardian spirit.
Soul cannot enter heaven till body is buried.
Souls wander after death.
Virgins condemned to wander at death.
Perilous path for soul to world of dead.
Dead person of good life goes over bridge to otherworld without fear.
Perilous valley in (on way to) land of dead.
Branching tree as roadway for souls.
Journey of soul to world of dead on reindeer.
Soul leaves possessions on road to final resting place.
Souls at Judgment Day.
There are to be two resurrections.
Souls weighed at Judgment Day.
Souls await Judgment Day in shapes of birds.
Souls of Irish to be judged by St. Patrick on Judgment Day.
Four (five) groups on Judgment Day.
Souls of sinners to spend seven years under waters of the sea before Doomsday.
Resurrection to take place on Sunday.
Judgment day on Monday.
Lost souls.
Soul in jeopardy after leaving body.
Devil in disguise hunts souls.
Fiends play ball with a soul.
Demons amuse themselves by plaguing souls in hell.
Souls of dead captured on leaving corpse.
Soul carried off by demon (Devil).
Raven carries off souls of damned.
Lost soul in raven feathers.
Hell-hounds accompany soul to lower world.
Soul bound for hell given sight of heaven.
Lost soul gnawed by worms.
Abandoned souls feed on spiders and night moths.
Souls of dead eaten by sky-spirits.
Souls of wicked eaten by deity.
Precautions taken with corpse before burial to prevent evil spirits from getting, using body.
Corpse must be watched carefully before burial.
Light must be kept burning by corpse to keep evil spirits away.
Saved souls.
Condemned soul recovered.
Condemned soul saved by prayer.
Demons powerless over souls commended to God before sleep.
Condemned soul saved by Virgin Mary.
Condemned soul saved by penance.
Condemned soul saved by holy person.
Condemned soul released by God.
Condemned soul released from hell by Christ.
Few grains of earth from river bed translates soul destined to an evil future to Paradise.
Condemned soul released because of tears of living.
Saved soul goes to heaven.
Souls of warriors go to Valhalla.
Souls carried to heaven by doves.
Souls carried to heaven by angels.
Angels of death fail to bring soul to heaven.
Dead and living go together to gate of heaven.
Dead children invited to eat at God's table.
Burial in certain ground assures going to heaven.
Soul of hermit who fasts to death for worldly fame would be damned but for past good deeds.
Souls carried to heaven in chariot of light.
Souls climb pillars of smoke and light on way to heaven.
Souls of pious as angels.
Destination of the soul.
Resurrected boys choose to return to heaven.
Angels separate souls going to heaven or hell.
Souls of dead presented to Adam.
Souls in heaven.
Heavenly hierarchy.
River in heaven burns wicked and gives joy to righteous.
Souls on way to heaven pass through Garden of Eden.
Sixty thousand Jewish souls in heaven.
Souls in hell (Hades).
Souls leave hell on Sundays.
Souls of drowned in heated kettles in hell.
Souls in hell wrenched from bodies with hot pitchforks by devils.
Souls in chains in hell.
Lost soul to serve as porter in hell for seven years.
Ghosts gather wood for hell fires.
Hell fires kindled according to sins of sinners.
Icy hell.
Dead flailed by demons.
Devils torment sinners in hell.
Dialogue between Christ and the souls in hell.
Series of hells.
Souls in purgatory.
Soul in purgatory sends letter bidding his son reward one who has prayed him from purgatory.
Other destinations of souls.
Souls of dead imprisoned in tree.
Soul of dead in a temple.
Contest over souls.
Devils and angels contest for man's soul.
Soul won from devil in card game.
Raven and dove fight over man's soul.
Saint wrests soul from demons.
Soul of gambler won by saint in dice game.
Saved soul of woman assists her husband's soul in battle against demons.
The soul prays.
Rejoicing at arrival of rich man in heaven.
The soul--miscellaneous.
Soul strives to be heard by the living.
Angel gives soul information concerning mortal.
Life token.
Blood as life token.
Life token: water turns to blood.
Life token: horn fills with blood.
Life token: track fills with blood.
Life token: earth, water, or blood in footprint.
Life token: blood of fish calls out.
Life token: blood boils.
Blood stops boiling.
Life token: blood changes color.
Life token: comb drips blood.
Life token: gloves drip blood.
Life token: scissors (razor, knife) drip blood.
Life token: cloth becomes bloody.
Life token: hero's horse stands in stable in blood up to his knees.
Life token: milk becomes bloody.
Life token: roof spouts of castle run with blood.
Life token: meal ground in mill is the color of blood.
Blood stops flowing from wound when captives escape.
Life token: staff stuck in ground.
Life token: staff stuck in ground shakes.
Life token: staff stuck in ground falls.
Life token: tree (flower) fades.
Life token: bamboo stalks grow with joints upside down.
Life token: bananas ripen from bottom up.
Lifen token: fruit decays on tree.
Life token: fruit falls from tree.
Life token: trees prostrate themselves.
Life token: object darkens or rusts.
Life token: knife stuck in tree rusts (becomes bloody).
Life token: picture burns black.
Life token: mirror becomes black (misty).
Life token: ring rusts.
Life token: silver object turns dark.
Life token: charm dries.
Life token: sword rusts.
Life token: beads cling together.
Life token: milk turns dark.
Life token: object breaks (bursts).
Life token: pot breaks.
Life token: zither string breaks.
Life token: ring springs asunder.
Life token: cup springs asunder.
Life token: stone breaks.
Life token: stones prostrate themselves.
Life token: sheaves prostrate themselves.
Life token: troubled liquid.
Life token: troubled water.
Life token: milk becomes red.
Life token: boiling liquid.
Life token: beer foams.
Life token: wine turns to vinegar.
Life token: milk becomes agitated in pan at death of relative.
Life token: miscellaneous.
Life token: ring presses finger.
Life token: spring goes dry.
Life token: leaves full from tree.
Life token: light goes out.
Life token: dogs pulling on leash.
Life token: bird sent each day to tell of hero's condition; when owl comes it will be to announce death.
Life token: bird feathers sink in river at hero's death.
Life token: great wind blows.
Life token: flaming shield goes out.
Life token: armor rattles at home when owner is killed away from home.
Life token: music box plays by itself as owner awaits burial.
Life token: arrow falls down.
Life token: paddy productive or unproductive.
Life token: rings will exchange places on girls' fingers.
Life token: direction dagger points determines if ogress has been killed.
Life dependent on external object or event.
Life bound up with light (flame).
Life bound up with candle.
Life bound up with burning brand (torch).
Life-lights in lower world.
Life bound up with that of animal.
Life bound up with object.
Life bound up with magic object.
Person to live as long as church stands.
Life bound up with calabash.
Life bound up with tree.
Girl lives until her cowslip is pulled.
Man's magic contains his life essence.
Life bound up with external event.
Father will die when daughter marries.
Mother will die when daughter is wooed.
Father will die when daughter bears son.
Father (and mother) will die on same day as daughter.
Person will die year he marries.
Person will die when he drinks from horn.
Snake can die only if it gives away hoarded treasure.
Man dies when tortoise shell is dug up.
One person's life dependent on another's.
Object dies or stops when owner dies.
Clock stops at moment of owner's death.
Tree dies when owner dies.
Post falls when owners lose estate.
Affinity of person and object.
Ash pole appears at doorway several times on day owner's daughter dies.
Clothes of wicked person burn when owner dies.
Ring with life in it.
Sickle with life in it.
Vital body: kills attacking enemies.
Animal bodily members transferred to person or other animal retains animal powers and habits.
Eyes successfully replaced.
Substituted eyes.
Prince regains his eyesight after theft of eyes from water maidens.
Eyes bought back and replaced.
Eyes borrowed by animal.
Limbs successfully replaced.
Substituted limbs.
Hands restored.
Substituted hand.
Substituted ribs (chariot ribs).
Arms restored.
Substituted arm.
Horse's leg cut off and replaced.
Substituted leg.
Severed leg(s) regrow(s).
Substituted tongue.
Vital head.
Head cut off and successfully replaced.
Severed head regrows.
Origin of Pegasus from neck of slain Medusa.
Severed head reddens and whitens.
Severed head opens eyes.
Vital head speaks.
Headless body vital.
Headless man lives four (seven) years.
Dead head grateful for burying it.
Flesh regrows.
Vital skin.
Substituted skin.
Ewe's hide grafted to skinless head of wounded man.
Heart successfully replaced.
Stomach borrowed by animal.
Severed pap regrows when woman bears child.
Vital bodily members--miscellaneous.
Organs exchanged with those of animal.
Man who forgets to count himself dies immediately after.
A Classification of Narrative Elements in Folktales, Ballads, Myths, Fables, Mediaeval Romances,
Exempla, Fabliaux, Jest-Books, and Local Legends
Indiana University ISBN 0-253-33883-2
5 89 complete set ISBN 0-253-33887-5
Names for otherworld.
Journey to otherworld as dream or vision.
Translation to otherworld without dying.
Supernatural husband takes mortal wife with him to heaven.
Journey to otherworld as invasion.
Journey to otherworld as hunt.
Journey to otherworld as penance.
Departure to otherworld (fairyland) attributed to death.
Journey to otherworld with angel.
Return from upper world.
Man taken to upper world sees all that happens on earth.
Journey to heaven (upper-world paradise).
Journey to heaven in trance.
Man goes to heaven without dying.
Man goes to heaven for limited time.
Journey to see deity.
Journey to sky-god.
Grieving mortal taken by god of the dead up to otherworld to identify his son, who has just died.
Men taken by Brahma to Siva so they can petition him personally.
Journey to heaven to see Buddha.
Man admitted into heaven but must not find fault.
Visit to star-world.
Man seeks his mother (star-maiden) in upper world.
Visit to land of moon.
Visit to land of the sun.
Inhabitant of upper world visits earth.
Child of deity visits earth.
Child of deity stolen and brought down to earth.
God visits earth.
God descends to found royal dynasty.
Cloud-folk visit earth.
Temptress sent from upper world by deity (Pandora).
Divine animal visits earth.
Divine cow descends to earth.
Divine elephant comes down from heaven to feed and disport himself.
Sky-rope.
Sky-rope shot by means of arrow.
Four sky-ropes.
Special kinds of sky-rope.
Spider-web sky-rope.
Vine as sky-rope.
Stalk as sky-rope.
Chaff sky-rope.
Rope of god's own hair.
Heavenly being's hair as sky-rope.
Iron chain hanging from heaven.
Sky-rope of mucus.
Sky-basket.
Ascent to upper world on seat attached to cord.
Ladder to upper world.
Ladder of glass to upper world.
Columns of smoke as ladder to upper world.
Ascent to upper world on arrow chain.
Tree to upper world.
Tree stretches to sky.
Plant grows to sky.
Mountain reaches to sky.
Mountain stretches to sky.
Rocks piled up to sky.
Sky-window.
Sky-window from digging or uprooting plant (tree) in upper world.
Bird pecks hole in sky-roof to give access to upper world.
Sky-window at horizon.
Road to heaven.
Narrow road to heaven.
Person's tongue as path to sky.
Path to heaven on beard.
Wall as path to upper world.
Tower (column) to upper world.
Access to upper world--miscellaneous.
Man stretches self till he reaches other world.
Pursuit of game leads to upper world.
Gate to upper world.
Person wafted to sky.
Ascent to sky on cloud.
Ascent to sky on feather.
Ascent to sky by sticking to magic feather.
Descent from upper world on magic feather (like ladder).
Ascent to sky on eagle-down rope.
Transportation from heaven in mist.
Ascent to upper world in smoke.
Bird carries person to or from upper world.
Bird flies to upper world.
Birds carry person to upper world.
Birds carry person from upper world.
Cock carries god to upper world.
Person carried to upper world by deity (spirit).
Mortal taken to heaven by heavenly maidens.
Mortal taken to heaven by angel.
Mortal taken to heaven by sun.
Ascent to upper world by holding on to morning star.
Journey to upper world by keeping thoughts continually on heaven.
Giant shot into upper world by means of magic bow.
Ascent to upper world on arrow.
Journey to upper world on horseback.
Journey to upper world in chariot.
Journey to sky-world by riding unseen in supernatural wife's chariot.
White sheep carries to upper world, black to lower.
Ascent to upper world by magic.
Ascent to heaven by holding on to elephant's tail.
Time involved in upper world journey.
Five hundred years to journey from earth to heaven.
Physical features of underworld.
Castle in lower world.
Darkness of lower world.
Descent to lower world of dead (Hell, Hades).
Orpheus.
Wife goes to land of dead to procure dead husband's heart.
Journey to land of dead to visit deceased.
Journey to hell to recover devil's contract.
Journey to hell to circumcize child.
Journey to hell to retrieve soul of mother.
Journey to lower world to get treasures.
Souls redeemed from hell in shape of sheep.
Hell of women in south of otherworld.
Ishtar unveiled.
Journey to otherworld to secure bride.
Door (gate) entrance to lower world.
Slamming door on exit from mountain otherworld.
Pit entrance to lower world.
Visit to lower world through hole made by lifting clumps of grass.
Person swallowed up by earth and taken to lower world.
Girl gathering flowers swallowed up by earth and taken to lower world.
Visit to lower world through opening rocks.
Entrance to lower world through mountain.
Entrance to lower world by making hole in ground.
Entrance to lower world through cave.
Hole to underworld kingdom of snakes.
Water entrance to lower world.
Boat to lower world.
Ferryman to lower world.
Under-water entrance to lower world.
Well entrance to lower world.
River entrance to lower world.
Dead place net across river to prevent living man from returning to earth.
Lake entrance to lower world.
Stair to lower world.
Path to lower world.
Path to world of dead.
Path from grave to lower world.
Broad path to hell.
Perilous path to hell.
Path to underworld marked by knots tied in grass by spirits.
Tree as roadway to underworld.
Rope to lower world.
Descent to lower world on animal.
Trip to lower world on tiger.
Return from lower world.
Return from lower world up steep slope.
Return from lower world by being slung by bent tree.
Return from lower world on eagle.
Return from lower world on vulture.
Escape from lower world by magic.
Escape from lower world on miraculously growing tree.
Ascent from lower world on animal.
Escape from lower world on bird.
Escape from lower world on horse of lightning.
Escape from lower world by spider's thread.
Man returning from hell brings heat with him.
Accidental arrival in lower world.
Hero shoots monster (or animal) and follows it into lower world.
Sound of drum followed into ghost town.
Rescued princess leaves her necklace behind in flight; hero returns for it and is left in underworld.
Boy follows nut into lower world.
Dead oppose return of living from land of the dead.
Youths grind in mill of underworldlings.
Youths tutored by Vulcan, smith of Hell.
Nature of underworld inhabitants.
People in lower world tall as a broom.
People of lower world come out in the evenings to drink and dance.
Visit to lower world--additional motifs.
Visit to lower world made head first.
Hell shown to Jonah by fish.
Wonder voyages.
Journey to earthly paradise.
Four earthly paradises.
Swineherd finds terrestrial paradise while looking for lost sow.
Journey to Isle of Laughter.
Voyage to Land of Promise.
Island of Tir Tairngire (Land of Promise) cannot be reached in boat made of "dead soft skins of animals."
Voyage to Land of Lotus Eaters.
Paradise of the Blessed, a subterranean world.
Land where all creatures are friendly to one another.
Voyage to land without evil.
Journey to Land of Women.
Fairyland (Ireland) inhabited (settled) by women only.
Journey to island inhabited by only one (beautiful) woman.
Separation of sexes in otherworld.
Man on Island of Fair Women overcome by loving women.
City of women.
Land of men.
Journey inside the earth.
Journey to the Land of the Unborn.
Journey to the Land of the Immortals.
Voyage to the Land of Youth.
Journey to the Land of the Thunders.
Journey to Mother of Time.
Journey to world of spirits.
Journey to land of giants.
Journey to land of little men (pygmies).
Journey to land of demons.
Journey to otherworld where people are made whole (cured).
Journey to land without sky: takes whole life.
Journey to animal kingdom.
Journey to serpent kingdom.
Subterranean palace at bottom of lake belonging to king of serpents.
Journey to land of elephants.
Journey to land of crocodiles.
Miscellaneous otherworlds.
Journey to Land of Men of Heads only.
Voyage to Land of Mossynoikoi.
Voyage to the Land of the Cimmerians.
Journey to otherworld island.
Journey to Isle of Tears.
Voyage to Isle of Truth.
Voyage to Isle of Shape.
Voyage to Isle of the Dead.
Voyage to Island of Darkness.
Voyage to Island of Silence.
Journey to land of no return.
Hero takes a mare to ride to land of no return: mare has just foaled and brings him back in her anxiety over her foal.
Land where everyone is wise, from the raja on his throne to the beggar in the bazaar.
Journey to land of naked people.
Land of India (Greece) as otherworld.
Spain as otherworld.
Ancient Ireland as location of otherworld.
Otherworld in hollow mountain.
Mountain of Venus.
Mountain of fair-haired women.
Otherworld on lofty mountain.
Otherworld visible from high mountain.
Earthly paradise on mountain.
Earthly paradise in air over mountain.
Dwelling of Fortune on lofty mountain.
Submarine otherworld.
Marine counterpart to land.
Empty under-water house.
Submarine monastery.
Otherworld at bottom of pond.
Otherworld at bottom of well.
Otherworld on island.
Series of otherworld islands.
Hebrides, Isle of Man (Falga) as otherworld.
Otherworld island disappears leaving voyagers in boat at sea.
Otherworld island divided into four parts.
Divine swans are on an inaccessible island in middle of seven seas.
Bruidhen (banqueting-hall) as otherworld.
Direction of otherworld.
Otherworld in east.
Otherworld in west.
Otherworld in northwest.
Distance of otherworld.
Guardian of spirit-land boundary.
Water barrier to otherworld.
Otherworld beyond water confused with otherworld under water.
Otherworld beyond water confused with otherworld under hill.
River as barrier to otherworld.
Perilous river as barrier to otherworld.
River that cannot be crossed by mortals.
River between the realms of giants and gods never freezes.
Mist as barrier to otherworld.
Storm (snow, hail) as barrier to otherworld.
Waves form high wall around otherworld isle.
Waterfall as barrier to otherworld.
River of fire as barrier to otherworld.
Wood at borders of otherworld.
Plain (field) at borders of otherworld.
Forked glen full of toads, lions on way to otherworld.
Mountain at borders of otherworld.
Glass mountain at borders of otherworld.
Houses at border of otherworld.
Tenantless houses at border of otherworld.
Hermit's hut at border of otherworld.
Witch's house at border of otherworld.
Inn at border of otherworld.
Wall around otherworld.
Fiery rampart revolves around otherworld isle.
Wall of silver around otherworld.
Otherworld surrounded by palisade of gold and silver.
Palisade of bronze around otherworld.
Otherworld surrounded by seven walls and locks of iron and doors of iron.
Bounds of the otherworld--miscellaneous.
Stone barrier to otherworld.
Way to otherworld hard to find.
Entrance to other world guarded by monsters (or animals).
Entrance to otherworld guarded by giant (champion).
Entrance to otherworld guarded by spirits.
Entrance to otherworld guarded by north and south winds.
Challenge at entrance of otherworld.
Shield hung on pole in front of otherworld palace as signal that adventurer must fight with owner.
Standing stone surrounded by withe as challenge at entrance of otherworld.
Road to otherworld.
Hospitable host entertains (guides, advises) adventurer on way to otherworld.
Perilous path to otherworld.
Perilous valley.
Perilous glen on way to otherworld.
Perilous forest on way to otherworld.
Perilous ford on way to otherworld.
Place in underworld beyond which hero cannot pass without being tatooed.
Path to otherworld over sharp rocks.
Mountain pass to otherworld.
Bridge to otherworld.
Bridge to otherworld guarded by animals.
Materials of bridge to otherworld.
Rainbow bridge to otherworld.
Bridge of sunbeams to otherworld.
Golden bridge to otherworld.
Glass bridge to otherworld.
Rope bridge to otherworld.
Sword bridge to otherworld.
Bridge to otherworld covered with knives.
Bridge of thread on way to world of dead.
Aurora as bridge to otherworld.
Slamming drawbridge to otherworld.
Otherworld reached by diving into water (of well or lake).
Underground channel to otherworld.
Path to sun on sun's rays (eyelashes).
Journey to otherworld by clinging magically to an object.
Door to otherworld.
Door to otherworld island sounds sleep-bringing music.
Door to otherworld island in supporting pedestal.
Perilous revolving wheel at entrance to otherworld.
Slamming (falling) door to otherworld.
Eleven portals to otherworld.
Journey to otherworld in boat.
Journey to otherworld in crystal (glass) boat.
Pit entrance to otherworld.
Other means to reach the otherworld.
Otherworld reached by hunting animal.
Journey to otherworld on horseback.
Wheel (apple) to be followed to otherworld.
Demon guide on otherworld journey.
Otherworld overseas confused with otherworld underground.
Otherworld overseas confused with otherworld under water.
Fairy otherworld confused with land of the dead.
Pagan otherworld identified with Christian paradise (heaven).
Otherworld as great plain.
Otherworld as valley.
Weather in otherworld.
Perpetual summer in otherworld.
Summer in otherworld when it is winter in world of mortals.
Landscape of otherworld.
Objects of crystal in otherworld.
Island of glass in otherworld.
(Luminous) precious stones in otherworld (dwelling).
Garden in otherworld.
Everblooming garden in otherworld.
Contrasting qualities found in otherworld garden.
Sweet and bitter fountain in otherworld garden.
Cool and boiling fountain in otherworld garden.
Objects on one side of palisade in otherworld garden black, on other white.
Tree half green and half in flame in otherworld garden.
Island in otherworld garden inhabited half by dead and half by living.
Trees bloom, others bear concurrently in otherworld garden.
All-yielding tree in otherworld.
Rivers in otherworld.
The four rivers of Paradise.
Rivers of wine in otherworld.
Rivers of honey in otherworld.
Rivers of mead in otherworld.
Rivers of balsam and attar in otherworld.
Rivers of oil, milk, wine, and honey in otherworld.
Thirteen rivers of balm in otherworld.
River in paradise with terrible roar.
Flowing stream forms arc over otherworld isle.
Jewels in streams of otherworld.
Perilous river in otherworld.
River in underworld from tears of living.
Underworld river from blood of sick mortals.
Tree in otherworld.
Marvelous tree grown from otherworld fruit.
Tree of Life in otherworld.
Wishing-tree in otherworld.
Tree in otherworld in perpetual fruit.
Magic apple tree in otherworld.
Magic apples (trees) under the sea.
Tree of knowledge of good and evil in otherworld.
Tree with golden top in otherworld.
Sea of glass in otherworld.
Sea of ice in otherworld.
Wells in otherworld.
Well (of wine) in otherworld.
Head in otherworld well emits stream of water from mouth.
Well containing "salmon of knowledge" in otherworld.
Lakes in otherworld.
Lake of fire in otherworld.
Lake with water of life in otherworld.
Rainbow of honey appears regularly in otherworld.
Magic fountain in otherworld.
Fountain of any temperature desired in otherworld.
Fountains in otherworld--one or more streams flow into each, one or more out.
Musical fountain in otherworld.
Mountains in otherworld.
Buildings in otherworld.
Castle in otherworld.
Revolving castle in otherworld.
Golden castle in otherworld.
Castles thatched with golden shields in otherworld.
Castles of gold and silver in otherworld.
Castles thatched with silver in otherworld.
Church (chapel) in otherworld.
Temple in otherworld.
Temple of jewels in otherworld.
Fiery temple in otherworld: Jewish: Neuman.
House in otherworld.
House of gold and crystal in otherworld.
House of silver in otherworld.
House in underworld lined with human eyes.
House in underworld made of bones of dead.
Gigantic mill in otherworld.
Fortress in otherworld.
Fortress of metal (gold, silver, etc.) in otherworld.
Stronghold in otherworld.
Tower in otherworld.
Tower hanging in the air in the otherworld.
Habitable caves and mounds in otherworld.
Characteristics of otherworld dwellings.
Doors in otherworld.
One hundred doors in palace of otherworld king.
Magic revolving wheel at door of otherworld dun (stronghold).
Doors of gold (crystal) in otherworld dwelling.
Otherworld dwellings open only at certain times.
Rooms in otherworld dwellings.
Hall of glass in otherworld.
Chamber with crystal ceiling in otherworld.
Jewelled walls in otherworld dwelling.
Floors of silver in otherworld dwelling.
Wattling of silver in otherworld dwelling.
Windows in otherworld.
Crystal bower with "bright windows" as otherworld dwelling.
Table always set in otherworld dwellings.
House in otherworld thatched with wings of birds.
Only joy felt in otherworld dwelling.
Otherworld (fairyland) as place of sorrowful captivity.
Fire in otherworld dwelling.
Four columns around fire in otherworld castle.
Copper-colored house in lower world.
Furniture and objects in the otherworld.
All furniture and objects in otherworld of gold.
Treasure and jewels in otherworld.
"Silver Bowl" (Grail) in otherworld.
Gold-producing spring in otherworld.
Extraordinary clothes in otherworld.
Otherworld clothing never wears out.
Magic objects in otherworld.
King's crown in well in otherworld.
Magic cauldron (vessel) in otherworld.
Altar in otherworld.
Thrones in otherworld.
Curtains in otherworld.
Beds in otherworld.
Canopies in otherworld.
Tables in otherworld.
Abundant food in otherworld.
Inhabitants of otherworld.
Animals in otherworld.
Beasts in otherworld.
Dogs in otherworld.
Birds in otherworld.
Otherworld islands of birds.
Insects in otherworld.
Bees in otherworld.
Other animals in otherworld.
Giant clams in otherworld.
Dwarfs in otherworld.
Giants in otherworld.
People in otherworld walk on their heads.
People in otherworld stand on their heads and pound yams with their heads.
Headless people in otherworld.
Handless people in otherworld.
Footless people in otherworld.
Otherworld people unacquainted with fire.
Otherworld people ever young, ever beautiful.
Otherworld people rejuvenated on reaching old age.
No carnal sin in otherworld.
Monstrous creatures in otherworld.
Serpents (monsters) in otherworld.
Hogs with bath of molten lead (iron) in otherworld.
King of otherworld.
Mortal marries king of otherworld.
Angels in otherworld.
Otherworld inhabitants segregated.
Portion of otherworld for women.
Great tattooer in otherworld.
Beings born in otherworld suffer from excessive heat.
Villages in otherworld.
Nature of the otherworld--miscellaneous.
Pillars of silver and glass in otherworld.
Pillars of bronze in otherworld.
Pillars of gold in otherworld.
Four-sided silver column on otherworld island.
Walls of crystal in otherworld.
Ship of glass in otherworld.
Silver fishnet in otherworld.
Fence of metal or crystal in otherworld.
Gold chain as support in otherworld.
Coldness of otherworld.
Fire in otherworld makes one feel colder.
Abundance in otherworld.
Pleasant fragrance in otherworld.
Extraordinary sights in otherworld.
Enigmatic happenings in otherworld, which are later explained.
Fat and lean kine in otherworld.
Broad and narrow road in otherworld.
People and things that strike one another in otherworld.
Fighting animals seen in otherworld.
Animals in otherworld pass in and out of church and become human beings.
Mysterious punishments in otherworld.
Man in otherworld loaded down with wood.
People in otherworld pour water into tub full of holes.
Trying to get a beam through a door crosswise in otherworld.
People in otherworld with horses both before and behind wagon.
Man in otherworld kindles fire.
People in otherworld thatch house with birds' wings.
Unseen hands lave feet in otherworld.
Demon eats sand; gambler lives wretched life in otherworld.
No time, no birth, no death in otherworld.
No gloom, no envy, etc. in otherworld.
Otherworld land of happiness.
Otherworld land of pleasure.
Otherworld land of peace.
Perpetual feasts in otherworld.
Hero carried off to otherworld by his supernatural wives.
Hero forces otherworld person's wife to tell him way to otherworld.
Magic music lures to otherworld journey.
Hero fights in otherworld and overcomes king (queen), or fairy.
Hero fights giants who ruin fairyland.
"Heavenly Academy" in otherworld.
Court in otherworld.
Colors of the otherworld.
Red as otherworld color.
Green as otherworld color.
Lovemaking in otherworld.
Mortals held by magic in otherworld.
Foods in otherworld.
Automatic service in otherworld: any sort of food desired furnished.
Otherworld king.
Wounded otherworld king in Ireland.
Otherworld queen.
Additional otherworld motifs.
Pixies (little people unseen but often audible and occasionally caught).
Bongas.
Little people from the sky.
Tabu: fighting battle in fairyland.
Fairyland under hollow knoll.
Prehistoric burial mounds as dwellings of fairies.
Contrast between people of the fairy mounds and inhabitants of the Land of Promise.
Tuatha Dй Danann, conquerors of Ireland, are overcome by invaders.
Entrance to fairyland through door in knoll.
Door to fairyland opens once a year.
Fairies emerge on Hallowe'en.
Fairies emerge on St. John's night.
Fairyland entrance under stone.
Fairies live under earth.
Fairyland under water.
Water fairies.
Fairyland entered through well.
Fairyland on island.
Magic boat to fairyland.
Fairies ferried across stream.
Sea-riding horse carries mortals to fairyland.
Trolls (fairies) live in range of hills.
Fairies live in star-world.
Fairyland in sky.
Fairies in heaven.
Peris in sky-world.
Fairies live in forest.
Fairies live in trees by stream.
Bonga lives in tree.
Congregating places of fairies.
Fairy lights seen in low places.
Fairies assemble at milestone.
Fairies assemble at cross-roads.
Other dwelling places of fairies.
Fairies dwell in the next country.
Garden in fairyland.
Fairies dwell in land to the east.
House of fairy.
Fairy house disappears at dawn.
Bonga house filled with snakes, tigers, and lions.
Fairies have a pretty room in hill.
Fairy family lives in neat cottage.
Fairy house without doors.
Fairy castle.
Fairies' underground palace.
Fairies' underground palace cannot be burned by fire nor destroyed by water.
Fairy stronghold.
Fairy castle of glass.
Fairy hall.
Shining bower on a pillar for fйe in otherworld.
Fairy lives in a shell.
Fairy's limbs.
Fairy's arms.
Fairy's iron arms.
Fairy's feet.
Fairies with bird feet.
Body of fairy.
Fairies have hollow backs.
Fairies have huge hole in each armpit.
Fairy has back rough like pine cone.
Fairies have breasts long enough to throw over their shoulders.
Fairies with unusually large ears.
Fairies have long hair.
Fairy as a small pretty girl with blond hair.
Fairy princess with golden hair.
Fairies have hairy bodies.
Fairies as giants.
Elves have only half a thumb.
Fairy has long tail.
Color of fairy.
Green fairy.
Fairy has one side green.
Silver-colored fairy.
Red fairy.
Fairy has red eyes.
Fairy's son is pale, dark, and ugly.
Fairies have yellow (golden) hair (clothing).
Fairy king with yellow hair.
Fairies fair (fine, white).
Fairies are multicolored.
Fairies are brown and hairy.
Fairies are black.
Gray-bearded fairy.
Transformed fairy.
Fairy transforms self.
Fairy as shape-shifter.
Fairy in form of an animal.
Fairy in form of giant animal.
Fairy in form of cow (bull).
Fairy in form of goat.
Fairy in form of swine.
Fairy in form of wild boar.
Fairy in form of stag.
Fairy in form of doe.
Fairy in form of toad.
Fairy in form of frog.
Fairy in form of worm (snake, serpent).
Fairy in form of horse.
Fairy in form of dog.
Fairy in form of lapdog.
Fairy in form of greyhound.
Fairy in form of eel.
Fairy in form of sheep.
Fairy in form of hare.
Fairy in form of wolf.
Fairy in form of weasel.
Fairy in form of bird.
Fairy as swan.
Fairy in form of dove.
Fairy in form of sparrow.
Fairy in form of drake.
Fairy in form of insect.
Fairy in form of fly.
Fairy in form of moth.
Fairy in form of ant.
Fairy in form of person.
Fairy in form of hag.
Fairy in hideous form.
Fairy as headless woman.
Fairy in likeness of another.
Clerics mistaken for fairies.
Fairy in form of beautiful young woman.
Fairy as messenger from fairyland.
Fairy as guide to fairyland.
Fairy assumes shape of woman and frequents bazaars.
Fairy in form of object.
Fairy disappears in form of a cloud.
Bonga girl (fairy) appears as flame.
Fairy in form of a bundle of rags.
Transformed fairy--miscellaneous.
Horse used by mortal under fairy spell changes to gray cat.
Visibility of fairies.
Fairies invisible.
Fairies visible only at certain times.
Fairies visible only at night.
Fairies visible only at noonday.
Fairies visible to one person alone.
Fairies made visible through use of magic object.
Fairies made visible through use of ointment.
Fairies made visible through use of magic soap.
Fairies made visible through use of magic stone on eyes.
Fairies made visible through use of magic water.
Fairies made visible through the use of saliva.
Fairies made visible when one carries four-leaf clover.
Fairies made visible by stepping on certain spot.
Fairies made visible by standing on another's foot.
Fairies made visible when person steps into fairy ring.
Fairies visible through magic ring.
Fairies seen as dark shadows.
Fairies lose power of invisibility.
Fairies lose power of invisibility if mortals gain knowledge of their secret.
Fairies made visible by looking with left eye.
Fairies made visible when person walks three times around field where cows are grazing at night.
Dress of fairies.
Ill-dressed otherworld person.
Color of fairy's clothes.
Fairies in red clothes.
Fairies in blue clothes.
Fairies in white clothes.
Fairies in gray clothes.
Fairies in gleaming clothes.
Fairy in green clothes.
Fairy wears multi-colored dress.
Fairies in long robes.
Fairies with belts and hats.
Fairies with three-cornered hats.
Fairies with red caps.
Fairy wears sugar-loaf hat.
Fairies with gold crowns on head.
Fairy wears boorish clothes.
Fairies wear patched coats.
Fairies wear gay clothing.
Fairies in disguise.
Fairies are naked.
Appearance of fairies--miscellaneous.
Fairies tied together by hair.
Fairy women identical in form and feature.
Fairy breathes fire.
Size of fairies.
Fairies are the same size as mortals.
Fairies are the size of small children.
Fairy is tiny.
Elves have faces of wrinkled old men.
Fairy's tears pearls.
Fairies' animals.
Fairy animal hunted.
Fairies' horses.
Fairy cavalcade.
Color of fairies' horses.
Fairies ride white horses.
Fairies ride dapple-gray horses.
Blue, red, yellow horses in fairyland.
Fairies ride cream-colored horses.
Behavior of fairies' horses.
Fairies' horses water at peasant's well.
Fairies' mare foals every year on first of May.
Fairies ride on three-legged horses.
Fairy horse one-legged.
Fairies' horses have round shoes.
Fairy's horse becomes invisible.
Fairy horse pulls chariot by pole which passes through his body.
Fairies steal stalks of hemp and turn them into horses.
Size of fairies' horses.
Fairies' horses the size of greyhounds.
Fairies' horses are of normal size.
Fairies' cows.
Color of fairies' cows.
Fairies have red cows.
Fairies' cattle become invisible.
Fairies' cattle under a lake.
Fairy cattle graze on earth on Hallowe'en.
Woman (fairy) lives only on milk from fairy cow.
Hogs follow fairies.
Spirit owns herds of pigs.
Goats follow fairies.
Fairies have herds of deer.
Fairies own herd of ibexes.
Fairy dogs.
Fairies have sheep.
Fairies have poultry.
Fairies' conveyances.
Fairy car.
Fairy car becomes invisible.
Fairy chariot rides waves.
Fairy chariot of precious metal.
Glass car.
Fairy boat.
Glass boat for fairy.
Fairy boat of bronze.
Fairy boat from flax-stem.
Fairies' food.
Christianized fairy woman refuses to eat fairy food.
Fairies' bread.
Fairies eat nuts.
Fairies eat meat.
Animals eaten by fairies become whole again.
Fairy food undiminished when eaten.
Fairies' food gives immortality.
Fairies' treasure.
" The Four Jewels of the Tuatha Dй Danann"
Fairy shows hiding place of treasure in return for freedom.
Fairy fetches mortals to remove treasure hidden by ghosts in their lifetimes.
Fairies scare treasure-seeker away from hoard.
Fairies dig for treasure.
Fairies guard giants' treasures.
Fairies' musical instruments.
Fairy harp.
Fairy tobacco pipes.
Origin of fairies.
Fairies as descendants of early race of gods.
Goddess as fairy.
Fairies as gods.
Fairies as souls of departed.
Unbaptized children as fairies.
Underworld people from children which Eve hid from God.
Fairies as sprites who have been given immortality.
Fairies as fallen angels.
Fairies as demons.
Fairy professes faith in Christianity.
Fairy gives instructions on means of reaching heaven.
Fairies are not the children of Adam.
Fairies are people not good enough for heaven but not bad enough for hell.
Fairies are druids.
Fairies are Welsh women cursed by St. Patrick for rebuking him because he left Wales for Ireland.
Fairies are outlaws hiding out.
Government of fairies.
Fairy king.
Mortal rules fairyland jointly with fairy king.
King of Land under Water.
Fairies elect king.
Indra has control over fairies.
Fairy queen.
Fairy army.
Soldiers of fairy king are trees by day and men by night.
Fairies banished from fairyland.
Fairy banished for adultery.
Fairy banished for falsehood.
Extraordinary powers of fairies.
Extraordinary physical powers of fairies.
Fairies possess extraordinary strength.
Fairy as mighty lifter.
Mortal characteristics of fairies.
Fairies have physical disabilities.
Fairies not omniscient.
Fairies can be bewitched.
Fairies can be wounded.
Fairies commit adultery.
Peculiar limitations of fairies.
Fairies must trade whenever it is demanded of them.
Fairies can set down an object once but cannot raise it again.
Fairies once seen by mortals no longer invisible at will.
Fairy army can go among mortals only on Hallowe'en.
Fairies do not bend grass as they walk.
Fairies read men's thoughts.
Mortal's coming to fairyland foreknown to fairies.
Tribute taken from fairies by fiend at stated periods.
Fairies gregarious.
Fairies hold a fair.
Characteristics of fairies--miscellaneous.
Mortality of fairies.
Fairies kill each other.
Fairy becomes mortal.
Fairy dies of longing for fairyland.
Fairies immortal.
Fairies cannot be slain.
Fairies freed from disgrace by bathing in blood of enemy.
Fairy reveals her true identity when despite heavy rain she remains dry.
Fairies dance.
Fairy rings on grass.
Fairies dance by themselves in fairy ring.
Fairy dances in snow: no tracks left.
Fairies dance on leaves without disturbing them.
Other locations of fairy dancing.
Fairies dance under tree.
Fairies dance under hawthorn trees.
Fairies dance under oak tree.
Fairies dance on foxglove.
Fairies dance in orchard.
Fairies dance in ditches.
Fairies dance in hay in barn.
Fairies dance on the green.
Fairies dance before Indra.
Fairies make music.
Fairies sing.
Fairies teach bagpipe-playing.
Fairy minstrel.
Fairy as harper.
Fairy harper plays two harps at once.
Fairy harper in yew tree.
Fairy harper in tiny bronze boat.
Fairy minstrel's birds sing accompaniment.
Fairy minstrel's music heard far and wide.
Fairy music causes sleep.
Fairy music causes mourning.
Fairy music causes joy (laughter).
Fairy music causes weakness.
Fairy music compared to music of Heaven.
Fairy music--person listening is without food or sleep for a year.
Fairy music so potent it would cause wounded men to sleep.
Fairies whistle.
Fairy horns heard by mortals.
Fairy music makes seven years seem like one day to mortal hearer.
Fairy music---miscellaneous.
Fairy music issues from stone.
Fairy music issues from fairy ring.
Fairies feast.
Fairy's share of feast a nut.
Fairy wedding.
Fairy bathes.
Fairies frequently use bath house.
Fairies warm themselves.
Fairies attend games.
Burial among underworld folk.
Burial service for fairy queen is held at night in Christian church.
Fairies as laborers.
Fairies as craftsmen.
Fairies lacking axes work with their teeth.
Fairies milk cows.
Fairies as builders.
Fairies build great structures in one night.
Fairies excavate passage.
Fairies build causeway.
Fairies build canoe.
Fairies skillful as smiths.
Fairies work on cloth.
Fairies bleach linen.
Fairies skillful as weavers.
Fairies spin.
Fairies clear land.
Fairy as herdsman.
Fairies churn.
Fйes engage in needlework.
Fairies wash their clothes: they are heard only at this task.
Fairies bake bread.
Fairy shows remarkable skill.
Fairy shows remarkable skill as marksman.
Fairy shows remarkable skill as runner.
Fairy physician.
Fairies descend chimney.
Fairies call out to mortals.
Battle of fairies and gods.
War between fairy settlements.
Fairies fight among selves for possession of island.
Good and bad fairies battle.
Fairies' strategy.
Fairy casts huge stones to keep enemies off.
Fairies create magic concealing mist.
Fairy replaces man's heart with heart of straw.
Fairies travel through air.
Fairies travel in eddies of wind.
Formulas for fairies' travel through air.
Fairies come from the kingdom of Indra to earth in four flying thrones.
Anchor falls on fairies.
Giants guard fairy princess from mortal man.
Husband pursues fairy wife to heaven.
Fairy lover.
Summoning fairy lover.
Girl summons fairy lover by breaking tabu.
Girl summons fairy lover by wishing for him.
Girl summons fairy lover by plucking flowers.
Girl summons fairy lover by lying under tree.
Girl summons fairy lover by pulling nuts.
Fairy lover entices mortal girl.
Elf-knight produces love-longing by blowing on horn.
Girl goes to fairyland and marries fairy.
Tasks set maid by elfin knight before she can marry him.
Elf-knight entices maiden away and kills her.
Fairy lover abducts fairy wife of mortal.
Girl goes to see her fairy lover on certain nights.
Fairy runs away from wedding with mortal girl.
Fairy mistress.
Bonga mistress.
Man goes to fairyland and marries fairy.
Mortals supplied with fairy mistresses during visit to fairyland.
Mortal gives fairy ring after night spent with her in fairyland.
Man marries fairy and takes her to his home.
Fairy wife deserts mortal husband for repulsive lover.
Fairy wooes mortal man.
Fairy visits mortal and becomes his mistress.
Raja refuses to marry a Peri.
Fairy entices man into fairyland.
Bonga girl (fairy) will return stolen goods only if mortal man will go with her.
Fairies stop ship to entice man to their land.
Man is carried to fairyland by fairy and marries her.
Fairy abducts whomever she falls in love with.
Fairy offers gifts to man to be her paramour.
Fairy offers aid to man if he will marry her.
Fairy offers to disenchant mortal wife if man will marry her.
Fairy avenges self on man who scorns her love.
Fairy avenges herself on inconstant lover (husband).
Fairies entice men and then harm them.
Fairy kisses man.
Fairy's kiss fatal.
Fairies dance with youth till he dies (or goes insane).
Pixies win dancing contest with man.
Fairy wooes and deserts man.
Fairy takes lover back to fairyland in magic sleep.
Fairies fall in love with prince and charm him into a deathlike sleep.
Man obtains power over fairy mistress.
Man shoots into wreath of mist and brings down fairy.
Fairy comes into man's power when he steals her wings (clothes).
Fairy comes into man's power when he steals her clothes.
Hero fights with fairy person, takes his wife and keeps her (for a year).
Man binds fairy and forces her to marry him.
Fairy mistress and mortal wife.
Man deserts wife for fairy.
Fairy mistress surrenders man to his mortal wife (Wildfrau).
Bonga girl (fairy) surrenders man to his mortal wife if he will name first daughter after her.
Fairy mistress transforms man's human wife.
Divine damsel converts mortal's first wife into a lovely woman; they all live together.
Man loses luck when he leaves fairy wife for mortal.
Fairy mistress demands that man send his mortal wife away.
Fairy mistress tries to destroy mortal's wife (mother) by sending her a magic belt.
Fairy mistress leaves man when he breaks tabu.
Celtic fairy mistress dominant.
Recovery of fairy mistress.
Mortal beats drum as fairies dance before Indra; is granted fairy wife permanently.
Fairy gives up her fairy nature and becomes mortal to be able to return to her mortal husband.
Fairy mistress prophesies mortal lover's fate in battle.
Fairy mistress demands mortal lover deny Christian teachings.
Fairy mistress rescues hero from battle.
Man to have fairy wife for only seven years.
Prince married to a she-monkey (really queen of the fairies).
Wedding of mortal and fairy.
Purification in kettle of boiling oil as preparation for marriage to fairy.
Sexual relations with fairy.
Fairy king punishes ravisher of his daughter.
Fairy queen's beauty temporarily destroyed by intercourse with mortal.
Beautiful woman found in bed with man after he has plugged keyholes to keep elves out.
Mortal violates fairy woman.
Fairy ravished by mortal strikes flesh from his ear.
Mortal chooses to sleep with fairy as boon for saving her life.
Fйe carried off by mortal.
Offspring of fairy and mortal.
Fairy relative makes gifts to half-mortal child.
Fairy mother bestows magic powers upon half-mortal son.
Offspring of fairy and mortal extraordinarily beautiful.
Right half of son resembles mortal father; left half, fairy father.
Offspring of fairy and mortal has long hair and beard at birth.
Fairies adopt human child.
Fairy godmother.
Fairy godmother helps girl escape.
Fairy foster-father.
Man killed on night when fairy guardian relaxes vigilance.
Fairy foster-mother.
Water fairy as foster-mother.
Fairy presides at child's birth.
Fairies bestow supernatural gifts at birth of a child.
Fairies make good wishes for newborn child.
Fairies control destinies of a mortal.
Three fairies sent to queen about to give birth to child.
Fairies comb children's hair.
Fairy predicts birth of child.
Fairy lays curse on child.
Fairy's curse partially overcome by another fairy's amendment.
Fairy's curse partially overcome by her own amendment after being appeased.
Fairy predicts future greatness of newborn child.
Fairy steals child from cradle.
Child sold to fairies.
Changeling.
Changeling deceived into betraying his age.
Changeling betrays his age when his wonder is excited.
Changeling plays on pipe and thus betrays his maturity.
Changeling dances wild dance to music, betrays maturity.
Changeling addresses woman in verse and thus betrays maturity.
Changeling shows supernatural power to work and thus betrays maturity.
Changeling calculates his age by the age of the forest.
Threat to throw on fire causes changeling to cry out and betray his nature.
Whipping causes changeling to betray his nature.
Characteristics of changeling.
Changeling has abnormal features or growth.
Changeling is always hungry, demands food all the time.
Changeling is sickly (often the fairy exchanged for a baby is an elderly, infirm member of the fairy clan whom the fairies are tired of
caring for).
Exorcising a changeling.
Disposing of a changeling.
Changeling thrown into water and thus banished.
Changeling thrown into ravine and thus banished.
Changeling thrown on fire and thus banished.
Changeling left on hill (dunghill, barrow etc.) and thus banished.
When changeling is threatened with burning, child is returned.
Changeling beaten and left outside; the mortal child is returned.
Mortal mother pays no attention to changeling; the mortal child is returned.
Mother treats changeling so well that her own child is returned.
Changeling made to believe that his house is burning up; he leaves.
Water fairy changeling kept out of water too long, dies.
Charms against theft of children by fairies.
Man goes to fairyland and rescues stolen child.
Unbaptized child stolen by fairies found in barn and rescued.
Beggar returns to his mother child stolen by fairies.
Fairies appear in house and offer to dance with child.
Fairies steal man's wife and carry her to fairyland.
Woman carried off by water-fairy.
Changeling bride.
Fairy borrows comb from Christian maid to comb hair of changeling bride.
Man rescues his wife from fairyland.
Stolen mother returns from fairyland each Sunday to minister to her children.
Abducted bride hidden in fairyland.
Rescue from fairyland.
Fairy women take body of dead hero to fairyland.
Girl abducted by fairy.
Girl borrows comb and mirror from bonga (fairy): carried to fairyland when she returns them.
Woman beset by elves (or phantoms) drowns self.
Youth abducted by fairy.
Fairies kidnap boy when he breaks tabu by going outside mansion under earth before 12 years.
Fairy father carries off child of mortal mother.
Family carried away to fairyland as part of bargain.
Fairies entice people into their domain.
Other fairy abductions.
Fairies carry off youth; he has gift of prophecy when he returns to earth (Thomas the Rhymer).
Fairies abduct young woman, return her when fight starts over her.
Fairies take persons up in air in chariots for a fortnight or a month.
Fairies who stay with mortals.
Lost fairy child found by mortals.
Fairy child found and cared for, but it pines away.
Fairy captured by mortal escapes.
Mortal wins fairies' gratitude by joining in their sport.
Mortal wins fairies' gratitude by joining in their dance.
Mortal wins fairies' gratitude by letting them cut his hair and shave him.
Mortal wins fairies' gratitude by joining in their song and completing it by adding the names of the days of the week.
Mortal wins fairies' gratitude by playing for their dance.
Fairy grateful for hospitality.
Fairy grateful to mortal for daily food.
Fairy grateful to human midwife.
Fairy grateful to mortal for healing.
Fairy grateful for loan.
Fairy grateful for loan of meal causes the vessel to remain full thereafter.
Fairies loyal to mortal who owns their knoll.
Fairy grateful to mortal for saving his life.
Fairy grateful to mortal for saving children's life.
Fairies grateful to man who repairs their utensils or implements.
Other grateful fairies.
Fairy grateful for rides on man's back, warns him his cow is choking.
Fairies care for tulip bed out of gratitude to owner for not plucking any of blossoms.
Fairy grateful for returning lost fairy child.
Fairies do all house and farm work for family who returns lost child.
Fairies cause all ewes to have two lambs for owner who has returned fairy child.
Parting fairies leave gifts for newborn princess.
Fairies give fulfillment of wishes.
Fairies give three gifts.
Fairy ransoms self with wish.
Captured water fairy promises to make ugly man beautiful in return for her release.
Fairies give mortal money.
Fairy gold.
Man borrows money from fairy (dwarf, devil).
Other presents from fairies.
Fairy offers mortal choice of magic objects.
Fairies give woman silver spoons.
Fairies give hunter a dog.
Dogs as gifts from fairy.
Fairy smith gives knight a magic sword.
Fairies give avaricious man gift of benevolence.
Fairies give beautiful clothes.
Fairy gives magic cloak (and shirt).
Bonga lends dishes to mortals.
Fairy-wife furnishes provisions.
Fairy leaves goats as purchase price for girl he has carried off.
Fairy gives man horses, cattle, etc.
Horses as fairy gifts.
Fairy gives warrior equipment for soldiers.
Fairy gives person magic sword.
Fairy gives person magic spear.
Fairy gives person invulnerable shield.
Fairy offers man change of form and feature for aid in battle.
Grateful fairy gives ring.
Fairy gives mortals a child.
Golden cup (bowl, urn) as gifts from otherworld inhabitants.
Magic apple as fairy gift.
Gigantic ox rib as gift from fairies.
Gigantic hog rib as gift from fairies.
Fairies give haymakers dinner each year until one of men keeps a fairy knife.
Fairies return hatchet head lost in river.
Fairies give mortals fairy bread.
Fairy bread must be eaten same day it is given or it turns to toadstools.
Sack of coals as fairy gift.
Fairies heal mortals.
Fairies remove hunchback's hump (or replace it).
Fairy physician can heal anyone whose spine is not severed.
Fairies give man white powder to cure mortals, replenish his supply whenever needed.
Fairies instructs mortals.
Fairies teach mortal to walk under water.
Supernatural person (poet) reveals marital infidelity.
Fairy helps mortal with labor.
Fairy serves mortal.
Fairies make shoes for shoemaker.
Fairies build house for mortal.
Fairy adviser.
Bonga made village headman and advice asked.
Tabus connected with fairy gifts.
Fairy gift disappears or is turned to something worthless when tabu is broken.
Fairy gift not to be taken to earth.
Cup given by fairy not to be broken.
Fairy gift not to leave possession of mortal's family.
Gifts of gold and silver not to be accepted from fairies.
Mortal not to recognize fairy who gives him gift.
Mortal not to betray secret of fairies' gift.
Mortal not to tell secret of gift of inexhaustible meat.
Mortal not to thank fairy for gifts.
Gifts of the fairies must never be measured or counted.
Tabu: telling of fairy gifts; the gifts cease.
Abuse of fairy gifts brings about their loss.
Tabu: mortal for whom fairy works must not watch him at work.
Gift barrel of ale which never runs dry goes dry when maid looks into bunghole.
Fairy gifts turn to paper when shown.
Gifts from fairies--miscellaneous.
Fairy aids mortal in flight.
Fairy aids mortal in battle.
Fairies exile devastating host.
Fairy promises abundant crops, etc., to mortal.
Theft of money from fairies.
Theft of money from fairies by joining unperceived in their game of money-throwing.
Theft of money from fairies by frightening them away from it.
Theft of cup (drinking horn) from fairies.
Theft of cup (drinking horn) from fairies when they offer mortal drink.
Theft of vessel from water-deity.
Kettle borrowed from fairies and not returned.
Fairy's ornament snatched.
King's crown stolen from fairyland.
Fairy cattle (bull, cow) stolen.
Unsuccessful attempt to steal fairy necklace.
Money borrowed from the fairies and not returned on time.
Theft from fairies--miscellaneous.
Eggs stolen from fairies.
Theft of golden bird from fairies.
Malevolent or hostile beings in otherworld.
Fairies pursue unbaptized children.
Fairy's revenge.
Fairy takes revenge for being slighted.
Fairy takes revenge for not being invited to feast.
Fairy takes revenge for not being offered food (drink).
Fairy takes revenge for mortal's failure to bring food and drink to fairy son's wedding.
Fairy takes revenge for theft.
Fairy recovers stolen cup by posing as a beggar.
Fairies cause man to lose his senses after he steals flower while visiting them.
Fairies bind man fast to ground after he has attempted to capture fairy prince and princess.
Fairy gifts stop when man steals fairy knife.
Fairies take revenge on person who spies on them.
Fairies leave work unfinished when overseen.
Fairies chase person who watches them dance.
Fairies take revenge on trespassers on ground they claim as theirs.
Fairies punish girl who pours hot water into their spring.
Fairies slay wooer (or his kin) of fairy maiden.
Fairies take revenge on mortals who hold their king captive.
Fairy takes revenge for slaying of his relatives.
Fairies take revenge for being dishonored.
Fairies take revenge for being teased.
Fairies threaten watcher of sheep.
Fairies take revenge on mortals who destroy their homes.
Fairies take revenge for cheating.
Fairy punishes servant girl who fails to leave food for him.
Fairies punish mortals who refuse to eat fairy food given them.
Fairies punish person who needs punishing because of his treatment of other mortals.
Other punishments by fairies.
Fairies lame miller who throws sod into his kiln where fairies are cooking oatmeal; the oatmeal scalds them.
Fairies take revenge on smith who disturbs them in the smithy when he returns after dark to get medicine.
Fairies pinch plowboy who breaks their wooden oven as he plows.
Fairy breaks leg of servant girl who tells lies about him.
Fairies bathe children in churn when housewife forgets to leave a supply of clear water for the fairies.
Fairy kills dog that refuses to let fairy sleep in stack.
Fairy kills man who refuses his hospitality.
Fairies chase man who dares them to come chase him.
Fairy mistress strikes her disobedient human lover on the face and predicts death.
Fairies cause disease.
Fairies cause blindness.
Fairies cause insanity.
Fairies cause weakness.
Fairy causes mutilation (injury).
Fairies cause death.
Fairies, directed by druid, bring about death of king by causing fish-bone to stick in his throat.
Brownie (Redcap, Redcomb, Bloody Cap) murders travelers, catches their blood in his cap.
Sight of fairies fatal.
Fairy's look burns mortal to ashes.
Fairy calls her victim only once or twice.
Fairies tickle mortals to death.
War between fairies and mortals.
Fairy warriors sit upon mortals and thus kill them.
Fairies wrestle with mortals.
War between fairies and giants.
Fairies steal.
Fairy steals on Hallowe'en.
Fairies steal ass.
Fairies steal anchor.
Fairies occupy peasant's house.
Fairy (bonga) steals part of crop.
Fairies steal pieces as mortal plays draughts with fairy woman.
Fairies steal cattle (pig).
Fairies steal cooking.
Fairies steal wool.
Fairies abuse livestock.
Fairies milk mortal's cows dry.
Fairies milk mortal's mare.
Fairies admit calves to cows, depriving children of milk.
Fairies ride farmer's calves.
Fairies ride mortal's horses at night.
Fairies plait manes and tails of horses.
Fairy rides behind man on horse.
Fairies in form of devastating animals kill flocks.
Fairies control prosperity.
Fairy hangs on to carriage on road.
Destructive fairy drink.
Human beings as game in fairy hunt.
Malevolent fairies--miscellaneous.
Fairies set fire to buildings.
Fairies defile waters Irish myth: *Cross.
Fairy kills mortal's hound (horses).
Fairy tricks mortal.
Fairy incites mortals to war.
Fairies destroy crops.
Fairies snip corn from stalks.
Fairy prevents butter coming.
Fairies lead travelers astray.
Elephants become lean from listening too much to fairy music; cannot graze.
Human being reared in fairyland.
Fairies take human nurse to attend fairy child.
Fairies take human midwife to attend fairy woman.
Fairies seek human godparent.
Old man as godfather to underground folk.
Mortal abandons world to live in fairyland.
Longing in fairyland to visit home.
Mortals as captives in fairyland.
Mortal as servant in fairyland.
Tailor works in fairyland.
Supernatural lapse of time in fairyland.
Supernatural lapse of time in paradise.
Year seems few hours in otherworld.
Tabus connected with trip to fairyland.
Mortal expelled from fairyland for breaking tabu.
Tabu: touching ground on return from fairyland.
Tabu: bathing or touching water in lake in fairyland.
Mortal visiting in fairyland must keep his thought on the fairies.
Tabu: drinking from certain well in fairyland.
Tabu: plucking flowers from bed tended by fairies.
Tabu: using fairy bath water, soap, or ointment on oneself while bathing fairy child.
Fairy visits: miscellaneous.
Return from fairyland.
No return from fairyland.
Objects brought home from fairyland.
Book (medical) brought back from otherworld.
Tokens brought back by mortal returning from fairyland.
Man lives with fairies seven years.
Saint visits king of fairies on invitation of fairy king.
Getting rid of fairies.
Fairy leaves when he is named.
Fairies leaves when mortal strews peas in his path.
Escape from pursuing fairies by strewing path with bananas.
Fairy leaves when he is given clothes.
Fairy escaped by learning and using his secrets.
Fairy lured away from house by treasure which he claims.
Fairy leaves when druid utters spell that drowns her voice.
Fairies leave when people do their needs where they live.
Spinning fairies lured away from the house by fire alarm.
Fairies will not approach when dogs are present.
Fairies leave when person watches them at work.
Fairy leaves when given impossible tasks to do.
Fairies leave when ordered to fight each other.
Fairies leave when thanked for their work.
Exorcising fairies.
Fairies fear the cross.
Holy water breaks fairy spell.
Use of God's name nullifies fairies' power.
Opening Holy Bible in presence of fairies nullifies their spells.
Chanting song of St. Nicholas drives fairy away.
Asking grace at fairy banquet causes fairies and banquet to disappear.
Fairy rendered powerless.
Fairy unable to pass cross-roads.
Fairy unable to cross running stream.
Fairy unable to cross plowed ground.
Fairy must leave at cockcrow.
Fairy prince becomes mortal when surprised by daylight.
Fairies leave at rise of morning star.
Sunlight fatal to fairies.
Transformed fairy warriors disenchanted when attacked.
Magic objects powerful against fairies.
Salt powerful against fairies.
Salt renders fairy mortal.
Salt sprinkled on fairy food renders it harmless.
Steel powerful against fairies.
Iron powerful against fairies.
Wearing flowers on one's ears protects from fairies.
Means of averting fairy spells.
Fairy spell averted by turning coat.
Fairy punished.
Fairy imprisoned in tree.
Fairy harper enclosed in yew-tree.
Fairy punished for marrying a mortal.
Troublesome bonga (fairy) pegged to ground and placed under stone.
Fairy transformed as punishment.
Fairy imprisoned as punishment.
Fairy captured.
Fairies depart.
Fairies depart to heaven.
Fairies depart to floating island.
Fairies otherwise defeated.
Fairies driven off with fire.
Abduction of Christianized fairy woman by fairies prevented by saint.
Fairy wounded by mortal.
Fairy killed by mortal.
Fairy defeated by druid's magic.
Fairies borrow from mortals.
Animals borrowed by fairies.
Ox lent fairies must not be worked after sunset.
Fairies borrow food from mortals.
Fairies borrow tools to make coffin.
Fairy transforms self to fly, allows self to be swallowed by woman and reborn as fairy.
Fairy visits among mortals.
Fairy dissatisfied with fairyland leaves to live among mortals.
Fairy minstrel lives among mortals to learn of their heroic deeds.
Fairy appears to mortal each Hallowe'en.
Impoverished fairy seeks fortune among mortals.
Otherworld woman appears to mortal in sleep.
Mortals help fairies.
Mortal advises fairy.
Druid directs fairies.
Mortals aid fairies in war.
Fairy has power to prevent mortal's approach.
Mortals place selves under protection of fairies.
Fairy woman exhibits her figure to warriors.
Hair burned to summon fairies.
Other fairy motifs.
Fairies bear dead warrior to fairyland.
Fairies protect selves by means of smoke.
Fairies hate clerics.
Playful or troublesome fairies.
Fairies sport with mortal.
Geniti (geilti) glinne, bбnбnaig, bocбnaig, and other supernatural beings associated
with confusion or strife.
Appearance of spirits.
Spirits dressed in antique clothes.
Luminous spirits.
Spirit in animal form.
Demons on animal feet.
Spirit in form of horse.
Ox demon.
Spirit as black dog.
Waumpaus: monster with huge dog tracks.
Spirit as fly going into bottle.
Demon in form of wasp.
Spirit in ant form.
Spirits with goose (chicken) feet.
Demon in form of hare.
Spirit in form of a bird.
Demon in form of crow.
Demons in form of black birds.
Spirits in form of snake.
Spirits without heads (or with heads under arms).
Spirit has half head.
Spirits appear horrible.
Spirit in form of horrible head.
Spirit in human form.
Fire-breathing spirit.
Gigantic spirit.
Spirit with feet turned wrong way.
Evil spirits.
Deeds of evil spirits.
Spirit leads person astray.
Spirit blocks person's road.
Spirits tangle up peasant's cows.
Demons assume human forms in order to deceive.
Demon takes on form of God to deceive faithful.
Demon causes disease.
Demons seek to carry off king's soul.
Spirit causes weakness.
Demon of gluttony devours man's food in his throat.
Spirits put corpse into river.
Spirit delivers false message.
Spirit pursues person.
Spirit causes death.
Spirit (devil) sent by druids cause death of Christian king.
Evil spirit kills and eats person.
Evil spirit harpoons sleepers.
Evil spirit's kiss fatal.
Spirit fights against person.
Ship held back by otherworld women.
Spirit and horses.
Demon suitors of girl.
Demon seduces princess as she bathes at seashore.
Government of demons.
King of demons (Asmodeus).
Queen of demons.
Child of demon king marries mortal.
City of demons.
Demons eat ravenously.
Creation of demons.
Demon formed from charmed apples.
Dwelling of demons.
Demon lives in tree.
Demon lives at root of tree.
Demons live in waste mound.
Demons live in well.
Demons live in white cliff with hole in it.
Spirits live in caves.
Family of demons.
Good spirits.
Spirits give money to mortal.
Spirits help mortal.
Acquisition of familiar spirit.
Familiar spirit acquired by carrying egg under left arm-pit.
Form of familiar spirit.
Familiar spirit in animal form.
Angels as familiar spirits.
Familiar spirit equivalent to man's soul.
Spirit in bottle (bag) as helper.
Demon as familiar spirit.
Spirit as small black man.
Deeds of familiar spirits.
Spirit in hornet form guards a treasure.
Spirit gives warning.
Spirits teach boy how to sing.
Familiar spirit brings news with magic speed.
Familiar spirit reveals infidelity of man's wife.
Spirit gives counsel.
Army of spirits and ghosts.
Means of summoning spirits.
Spirit must speak as soon as addressed.
Conjuring spirits.
Means of combating spirits.
Priest bans spirit with sword.
Spirits driven off by knife-thrusts and pistol shots.
Spirits deceived by drum-beats and hoodwinkings.
Spirit (demon) baffled by scolding and getting last word.
Cat, dog, and mouse ward off evil spirit.
Dogs protect house from spirits.
Grain scattered as a means of dispersing spirits.
Spirit leaves when report is made of the death of one of his kind.
"Tell to mill-mouse that the field-mouse is dead." Spirits leave when report is made of fire at their home.
Spirit overcome by driving stake through body it inhabits.
Demons flee stone (when saint steps upon it).
House spirit leaves when gift of clothing is left for it.
Demons flee from fire.
Man captures spirit by hiding his stick and leg-wrappers of copper.
Evil spirit laid after it is tormented by exorciser.
Spirits propitiated.
Doors left open to let night creatures pass to and fro.
Food left out for spirits at night.
Spirits allow people with faces to ground to pass.
Demon of gluttony coaxed from man's throat with bits of food.
Departure of spirits.
Spirit vanishes in smoke.
Spirits ascend to heaven by building fire.
Spirit fades into air.
Habitation of spirit.
Demon occupies (speaks from) lance (sword).
Spirit in heart of man (fairy).
How spirits travel.
Spirit travels with extraordinary speed.
Demon travels in whirlwind.
Spirit floats in air.
Demon ship sails against the wind.
Visibility of spirits.
Invisible spirit speaks.
Spirits visible to only one person.
Spirit made visible by standing on another's foot.
Origin of spirits.
Spirit carries people.
Lover transported to girl's apartments in fortress by spirit.
Spirit transports miser to treasure-wood.
Demon occupies oracular artificial head and gives responses to questions.
Spirits set fire to mill.
Spirits keep mill from working.
Spirits receive their share of everything made at certain specified times.
Spirits borrow from mortals at weddings, return goods later.
Spirits (demons) hover in air shrieking over battle.
Spirits answer war cry.
Spirits and demons--miscellaneous.
Demons hold horse-race.
Thieving spirit.
Special spirit for each species of animal to act as its protector.
Form and appearance of water-spirits.
Water-spirit as man.
Water-spirit appears as handsome man.
Water-spirit appears as black man.
Water-spirit as small gray man.
Water-spirit as man clothed in white and accompanied by a dozen attendants.
Water-spirits have one eye.
Water-spirit as woman (water-nymph, water-nix).
Water-maidens are of unusual beauty.
Water-maidens mute.
Water-spirits in animal form.
Water-spirit as toad.
Water-spirit as fish.
Water-spirit as one-eyed fish.
Water-spirit as horse.
Water-spirit as bull.
Water-spirit as stork.
Water-spirit as cat.
Water-spirit as goat.
Water-spirit as mouse.
Water-spirit as snake.
Water-spirit as frog.
Water-spirit as ape-like creature.
Water-spirit as otter.
Water-spirits in abnormal form.
Body of water-spirit is half human and half fish or snake.
Water-spirits have body covered with fish scales.
Water-spirits as dwarfs.
Water-spirits have hunchback.
Water-spirits with human body and webbed feet and hands.
Water-spirits with horse feet.
Water-spirits with green hair and beard.
Water-spirits with green teeth.
Water-giants.
Water-spirit with extraordinarily long hair.
Water-spirits invisible.
Invisible water-spirit claps hands and speaks.
Mysterious voice--water-spirit--is calling from sea.
The seas become heavy without natural cause.
Dress of water-spirits.
Water-spirits are dressed like people of surroundings.
Water-spirits are clad in clothes of gold and silver.
Water-spirits wear precious adornment.
Water-spirits wear wreath of flowers and reed on hair and dress.
Water-maidens have long veil.
Color of water-spirit's clothes.
Water-spirits are clad in red.
Water-spirits are clad in gray.
Water-spirits are dressed in green.
Water-spirits are dressed in white.
Water-spirits are dressed in blue.
Water-spirits are nude.
Water-spirits appearing like human beings are recognized by traces of water.
Corner of water-spirits' dress is always wet.
Coat pockets of water-spirits are dripping with water.
Water-spirits leave trace of water when standing or walking.
Home of water-spirits.
Water-spirits live in castles of crystal under water.
Water-spirits' under-water castle is luxuriously furnished.
Water-spirits live in village under water.
Water-spirits have garden.
When water-spirits are outside their homes the seas are heavy.
Water-spirits have hearth made of three human skulls.
Social life among water-spirits.
Water-spirits have family life under water.
Water-spirits have likings and occupations like human beings.
Water-spirits dance.
Water-maidens dance at village fair.
Water-women come to market and store.
Water-women wash and hang up laundry on beach.
Water-spirits bake.
Water-spirits mend clothes.
Water-maidens spin.
Water-man cuts osier to make wicker basket.
Water-spirits have kingdom under water: queen, king, attendants, vassals.
Water-spirits have laws.
Water-spirits must be in water before midnight; delay is punished with death indicated by blood in water.
Water-spirits must be in water before dawn; delay is punished with death.
Water-spirits visited by mortal.
Characteristics of water-spirits.
Water-spirits possess magic power.
Protean transformation of water-spirit.
Water-spirits have supernatural lapse of time: days seem like years.
Water-spirits are cannibals: devour mortal victim, suck blood.
Water-spirits are grateful.
Water-spirits are jealous.
Water-man is rendered powerless if kept away from water.
Water-women are powerless when their garments are taken.
Seeing and observing of water-spirits has fatal consequences.
Water-spirits have treasures under water.
Water-spirit controls water-supply.
Water-spirits are prophetic.
Deeds and actions of water-spirits.
Kind water-spirits.
Water-spirits protect and warn sailor against storm and in tempest.
Water-spirits save shipwrecked people.
Water-spirits help poor.
Water-spirits help lovers.
Water-spirits work as servants for mortal for small compensation.
Water-spirits work as servants for mortal but disappear when compensation is offered or origin suspected.
Water-spirits work at night in home of mortals.
Water-spirits give gifts to mortals.
Water-spirits give money, gold, or precious stones.
Seemingly worthless gifts of water-spirits turn to gold.
Water-spirits give magic gifts.
Water-spirit returns to the woodchopper a silver axe in place of the one he has lost.
Water-spirit gives mortal fish.
Water-spirits give advice.
Water-spirits adopt human foundling.
Water-spirits save man from drowning.
Malevolent water-spirits.
Water-spirits lure mortal into water.
Water-maiden enamors man and draws him under water.
Water-spirits lure children into water, offering objects.
Hero drowned by water-spirits, who draw him down as he crosses ice.
Water-goddess allows body of drowning person to come up three times.
Water-spirit drags children into river.
Water-spirit claims a life every seven years.
Water-spirits kidnap mortals and keep them under water.
Water-spirit returns kidnapped man in return for release of his long hair.
Mistreated boy sings unto water spirits to take him: waters rise up in tank to engulf him.
Water-spirit keeps souls of drowned persons in dishes in his home.
Water-spirits steal children and leave changeling.
Water-spirits interfere with building bridges, dams.
Water-spirits take revenge on mortals.
Water-spirits take revenge if yearly tribute is not given.
Water-spirits take revenge for trespassing on ground they claim as theirs.
Water-spirits take revenge for being harmed.
Water-spirits avenge selves on mortal who fails to keep promise.
Water-maidens avenge selves for scorned love.
Water-spirits take revenge on mortals for pollution of water.
Water-spirit turns boat in circle.
Water-spirit crushes boat.
Water-spirit shakes ship.
Water-spirit wrecks ship.
Water-spirit holds ship back.
Water-spirit splashes passing people.
Water-spirits lead travelers astray.
Water-man sits on back of persons as heavy burden.
Water-spirits cause blindness.
Water-spirit causes illness and death.
Other actions of water-spirits.
Water-spirits sit on beach combing their long hair.
Water-spirit calls human midwife.
Water-spirits call human godmother.
Water-spirit flees if holy name, ceremony, or blessed object is used.
Nix flees from benediction in church.
Water-spirit demands food from those it takes across stream.
Water-spirits prophesies.
Marriage of water-spirits.
Marriage or liaison of mortals and water-spirits.
Water-man woos mortal girl.
Water-spirit offers gift to mortal to win love.
Mortal goes to home of water-spirits and marries.
Water-maiden goes to home of mortal and marries.
Water-maidens make conditions for lovers.
Offspring of marriage between mortal and water-spirit.
Water-spirit surprises and rapes a mortal woman.
Love and marriage between water-spirits and other spirits.
Water-man marries fairy.
Water-maiden marries giant.
Water-maiden is wooed by dwarf.
Miscellaneous motifs connected with water-spirits.
Visit to water-goddess's underwater home.
Lake-spirit.
Lady of the Lake.
Marsh-spirit.
Sea spirits.
Nereid.
River-spirit.
Spirit of brook.
Fountain spirit.
Spirit of water-fall.
Other water-spirits.
Spirit of tide-crack.
Cloud-spirit.
Wind-spirit.
Storm-spirit.
Spirit of snow.
Spirit of thunder.
Spirit of cold.
Spirit of warmth.
Spirit of earthquake.
Spirit of earthquake lives underground (below earth).
Spirit of earthquake has very long mouth.
Other weather-spirits.
Rainbow spirit.
Rainbow draws to itself fisherman and his boat.
Rainbow spirit as helper on journey.
Rainbow spirit as messenger.
Green vegetation spirit.
Wood-spirit.
Schrдtel. An elf-like, male, malevolent wood-spirit.
Tree-spirit.
Tree-spirit persuades man to spare tree.
Wood-nymph.
Wood-nymph comes to the fire to warm.
Wood-nymph with breasts so long that she throws them over her shoulder.
Wood-nymph wooes and then deserts man.
Tree maidens bathe at midnight in lake.
Dryad. Female spirit dwelling among trees.
Hamadryad. Female spirit of a particular tree.
Man marries tree maiden.
Man marries spirit of willow tree.
Tree-spirit in elder tree.
Wild man as wood-spirit.
Form of wood-spirit.
Wood-spirit gigantic with one eye in center of forehead.
Wood-spirit without hands, feet, or mouth.
Forest spirits brighter than moon.
Forest-spirits with wings and with backward-pointing fingers and toes.
Wood-spirits with such heavy eyebrows they must lie on backs to see upwards.
Wood-spirits with teeth on stomach.
Size of wood-spirit.
Wood-spirit tiny.
Wood-spirit gigantic.
Deeds of wood-spirits.
Wood-spirits responsible for sickness and failure.
Wood-spirits transform men into animals.
Sexual relations with wood-spirit fatal.
Wood-spirit calls after one in woods (Hehmann).
Pan.
Mysterious voice announces death of Pan.
Echo as wood-spirit.
Echo as wood-spirit kidnaps and crazes man.
Field-spirits.
Crop-spirits.
Tobacco-spirit.
Flower-spirits.
Voetter (generalized underground spirit).
Helpful underground spirit.
Helpful spirit warriors dwell in rocks and hills.
Underground spirit instructs a smith.
Dwarf.
Luchrupбin (leprechauns) (as fairies).
Origin of dwarfs.
Dwarfs originate from maggots in flesh of giant.
Dwarfs originate from the blood and bones of giant.
Murderer's children become dwarfs.
Dwarfs came after giants had almost died out.
Dwarfs came into the land 1000 years before mortals came.
Dwarf as reincarnation.
Dwarf as reincarnation of rat.
Appearance of dwarf.
Dwarfs are ugly.
Dwarfs are grown over with moss.
Dwarfs walk stooped.
Dwarfs appear nodding and anxious to speak.
During the day dwarfs appear in form of toads or other vermin.
Dwarfs are pale.
Body of dwarf.
Dwarfs are small.
Dwarf with body like tailless hen.
Dwarf with small body and large head.
Hunchback dwarf.
Feet of dwarf.
Dwarf's feet twisted backward.
Dwarf with bird feet.
Dwarfs with goat feet.
The beards of dwarfs.
Long-bearded dwarf.
Dwarfs have long beards in three strands.
Dwarfs have gray beards.
The hair of dwarfs.
Dwarfs have coarse hair.
Dwarfs have silvery white hair.
Face of dwarf.
Dwarfs have old face.
Other bodily characteristics of dwarfs.
Dress of dwarf.
Dwarfs with red heads and red caps.
Dwarf clad in green.
Dwarfs referred to as "gray", not specifying whether as to dress or hair.
Dwarfs clad in white.
Dwarfs wear red coats.
Dwarfs wear peculiar caps.
Dwarf king wears costly crown.
Dwarf clad in brown.
Dwarf clad in black.
Dwarfs clad in motley.
Voice of dwarfs (echo).
Characteristics of dwarfs.
Power of dwarf in his belt.
Dwarf rendered powerless.
Dwarfs turn to stone at sunrise.
Dwarf prevented from getting into his stone before sunrise till he promises to do what hero demands (especially forge weapons).
Dwarf otherwise caught and thus forced to procure what hero demands.
Dwarfs must return to spirit world by 1 a.
Dwarfs cannot harm mortal with circle drawn around him.
Dwarf can be killed only with snowball.
Dwarf as magician.
Dwarf can take what shape he wants.
Dwarfs turn peas into gold pieces.
Dwarf turns gold into lead.
Dwarfs transform people (animals).
Dwarfs free mortals from enchantment.
Dwarfs bewitch cows to give no milk.
Dwarfs bewitch people.
Dwarfs fly through air.
Dwarfs predict.
Dwarfs made invisible by magic caps.
Dwarfs as workmen.
Dwarf workmen heard at night.
Dwarfs as artificers.
Dwarfs build tower.
Dwarfs as smiths.
Dwarfs do farming.
Dwarf sews.
Dwarf bakes bread.
Dwarfs spin.
Dwarfs churn.
Dwarfs carry water.
Dwarf expert at making palm wine.
Dwarf splits wood using penis as wedge.
Dwarf can draw entrails out of elephant.
Dwarfs are subject to laws of nature.
Dwarfs die.
Dwarfs become ill.
Dwarf children are hungry.
Dwarfs have blood.
Dwarf women bear children.
Dwarfs are sensitive.
Dwarf is insulted when scolded.
Dwarfs dislike teasing.
Dwarfs dislike tobacco smoke.
Dwarfs accept as gift goose but not gander.
Dwarfs timorous.
Dwarfs fear the dark.
Dwarfs fear dogs.
Dwarfs are particular as to food.
Dwarfs dislike caraway seed in food.
Dwarfs dislike bread baked without salt.
Dwarfs given inedible food to eat.
Dwarfs are strong.
Dwarf carries mortal down from Hibichenstein.
Dwarfs are weak.
Dwarf groans while carrying an ear of corn.
Dwarfs are droll.
Great age of dwarfs.
Dwarfs are intelligent.
Dwarfs know herbs.
Dwarfs are sensible.
Dwarfs are wise.
Dwarfs cut runes.
Dwarfs are ill-mannered.
Eating dwarfs smack like hogs.
Dwarfs chatter.
Dwarfs chatter like geese.
Dwarf breaks wind so hard he capsizes canoes.
Dwarfs are numerous.
Dwarfs come into the land by the hundreds.
Dwarfs are superstitious.
Dwarfs are superstitious about the three sevens in 1777.
Dwarfs are artful.
Home of dwarfs.
Dwarfs live under the ground.
Dwarfs live in caves.
Dwarfs live in underground castle.
Dwarfs live in luxurious underground palace.
Dwarfs live in underground passage.
Dwarf home is underground, beneath cow stable.
Dwarfs undermine lowlands for homes.
Entrance to dwarf home leads through some filthy place under the swill hole or swill tub.
Dwarfs live in the high banks of the seashore.
Burial places (barrows, howes) as homes of dwarfs.
Snow melts above dwarf's dwelling.
Dwarfs live in hills and mountains.
Dwarfs live in stones.
Dwarfs have homes above the ground.
Dwarfs live in a cliff.
Dwarfs live in ravines.
Dwarfs live in a forest.
Dwarfs live in a church.
Dwarf king lives in a mill.
Dwarfs seen on a mountain.
Description of dwarf home.
Dwarf cave closed by iron doors.
Dwarfs' rock closed by rock-door.
Dwarf cave has large square room with little doors leading to all sides.
Dwarf cave has ceiling of mineral white as snow.
Dwarf home has chandelier of crystals and gems.
Floors in dwarf home are covered with pine twigs.
Dwarfs' castle of gold.
Magic flower opens dwarf home.
Dwarfs' house of reeds.
Dwarfs' house covered with skin of fabulous six-legged animal.
Home of dwarfs is endangered or destroyed.
Dwarfs resentful that mortals shoot at birds above Hibichenstein, because this crumbles away the cliff.
Thirty-Years War destroys home of dwarfs.
Dwarfs request that cow stable be moved because it is above their home and the seepage strikes their dining table.
Dwarf wishes death to mortal who throws water on his dunghill home.
Government among dwarfs.
Dwarfs are ruled by a king.
In dwarf land sunrise is at midnight.
Dwarfs and human beings.
Helpful dwarfs.
Dwarf as godfather.
Dwarfs adopt girl as sister.
Dwarfs make new golden hair for woman.
Dwarfs' gold.
Money or treasure given by dwarfs.
Dwarf king turns mill which produces gold.
Other gifts from dwarfs.
Dwarfs' gifts cease when mortal betrays the source.
Dwarfs serve mortals.
Dwarf serves king sleeping in mountain (Kyffhдuser).
Dwarfs direct mortals to treasure.
Dwarfs heal (give medicine).
Dwarfs lend to mortals.
Dwarf moves mortal's castle from one mountain to another.
Dwarf washes, combs, and braids hair for sleeping maids.
Dwarf conducts shepherd to hell to collect debt from nobleman.
Dwarfs warm heath by underground fire.
Dwarf king prevents a father from shooting his son.
Dwarfs protect the forest.
Dwarfs teach mortals.
Dwarfs help human beings with spinning.
Dwarfs help in performing task.
House of dwarf's friend spared in fire.
Malevolent dwarf.
Ungrateful dwarf.
Dwarfs steal from human beings.
Dwarfs steal magic objects.
Dwarfs steal food and drink.
Dwarfs exchange children in cradle.
Father given carved wooden image in lieu of son stolen by dwarfs.
Dwarfs kidnap mortals.
Dwarfs interfere with mortal's work (destroy buildings, crops, etc.
Dwarfs punish.
Dwarfs play pranks.
Dwarfs threaten mortals.
Dwarfs scold mortals.
Dwarfs frighten mortals.
Dwarfs attack soldier.
Dwarf takes back gifts he gave.
Dwarfs curse weapons and treasures which they are forced to give (or which the receiver does not appreciate).
Dwarfs demand gifts.
Dwarfs are ancestors of mortals.
Crippled mortals are of dwarf ancestry.
Mortal goes to land of dwarfs.
Ghost conceals herself with dwarfs.
Dwarfs suspend large millstone on thin thread over head of mortal, to show what anguish dwarfs felt when mortal endangered their lives.
Enchanted princess lives with dwarfs.
Dwarfs have human woman as midwife.
Dwarfs have mortal god-parent.
Dwarfs visit mortal's home.
Dwarf wants to warm self at fire.
Dwarfs associate with mortals.
Dwarf follows countess around like a little dog.
Dwarfs and Christianity.
Dwarfs fear the cross.
Dwarfs dislike singing of hymns.
Dwarfs dislike church bells.
Dwarfs regard Day of St. John the Divine.
Dwarf seeks to enter church.
Murder causes dwarf to lose his soul.
Business relations of dwarfs and mortals.
Dwarfs accept remuneration.
Dwarfs object to rewards.
Dwarfs borrow from mortals.
Dwarf borrows sledge.
Dwarfs return what they borrow.
Dwarfs buy peas from mortals and pay more than they are worth.
Dwarfs pay for being ferried across water.
Mortal confiscates property of dwarfs.
Dwarfs make promises with mental reservations.
Ausgelohnt.
Dwarfs suffer abuses by mortals.
Dwarfs thwart efforts of mortals to get additional favors.
Mortals, informed by those benefited, seek dwarf abode in vain.
Dwarfs exact promise from mortals.
Dwarfs tease mortals.
Dwarfs give riddles and questions to mortals.
Dwarf promises mortal much money if he will guess his name.
Dwarf makes return of child dependent upon guessing of riddle.
Dwarf suitor desists when unwilling maiden guesses his name.
Dwarfs dislike human vices.
Dwarfs invisibly attend wedding or christening feasts of mortals.
Invisible dwarfs at christening feast made to speak by brewing beer in egg-shell.
Dwarf loves mortal girl.
Dwarf promises money and property to mortal father for hand of daughter.
Dwarfs are bashful or timid.
Dwarf stays away from house after maid tries to catch and kiss him.
Dwarfs give orders to mortals.
Six dwarfs listen to singing by confirmed children.
Expelled dwarfs plan to dig underground bed for Rhine.
Dwarfs seek human help in their fights and troubles.
Other actions of dwarfs.
Dwarf caught by beard in cleft of tree.
Dwarf rides.
Dwarf rides on a hare.
Dwarf rides through air on wooden horse.
Dwarfs are taken for hussars because they ride little horses.
Dwarfs try to kill serpent.
Dwarfs have festivities.
Dwarfs feast mortals in their home.
Dwarfs celebrate weddings and christenings of their own.
Dwarfs have music.
Dwarf musician (poet).
Dwarf dances.
Dwarfs play in the moonlight.
Dwarfs hold church services.
Dwarfs fight with each other.
Dwarfs wed.
Dwarfs laugh.
Dwarfs weep.
Dwarfs become angry.
Dwarfs dig for treasures.
Frau Holle lives with dwarfs.
Dwarfs betray.
Dwarf king Hibich comes to surface every 500 years.
Dwarf carries his knocked-off leg on his shoulder.
Dwarfs flee to caves for protection.
Possessions of dwarfs.
Dwarfs possess treasure (gold, jewels, etc.
Dwarfs have ovens.
Dwarfs have little lanterns.
Dwarf king has silver miner's torch bright as the sun.
Dwarfs have little horses.
Dwarfs have cattle, steeds and wagons.
Names for dwarfs.
Common names for dwarfs.
Proper names for dwarfs.
Dwarfs emigrate.
Why dwarfs emigrate.
Dwarfs emigrate because mortals put caraway seeds into bread.
Dwarfs emigrate because mortals are false.
The three sevens in 1777 drive dwarfs out of the land.
Dwarfs emigrate because of industrial development.
Dwarfs promise to emigrate if captured dwarfs are released.
Dwarfs emigrate because Christianity offends them.
Dwarfs emigrate because mortals tease them.
Dwarfs emigrate because mortals object to their stealing.
Dwarfs emigrate because they dislike peasants' dancing and loud music.
Dwarfs emigrate because mortals curse.
Dwarfs emigrate because mortals desecrate holy day.
Dwarfs emigrate because of mortals' ingratitude.
Frederick the Great drove dwarfs across Black Sea.
Dwarfs forced to flee by deity.
Dwarfs emigrate when their king dies.
The destination of emigrating dwarfs.
Dwarfs emigrate to unknown place.
Dwarfs emigrate to the Orient.
Dwarfs emigrate New Year's Eve of 1800 to return New Year's Eve of 1900.
As dwarfs emigrate each deposits coin into kettle for mortals.
Emigrating dwarfs are ferried across water.
Dwarfs emigrate unseen but heard.
Dwarfs and other supernatural beings.
Giants and heroes created for the protection and aid of dwarfs.
Giants and dwarfs in contest.
Dwarfs kill giantess by dropping millstone on her head.
Dwarfs in love with other supernatural beings.
Dwarfs make weapons and other precious objects for the gods.
Trolls.
Home of trolls.
Trolls live in howe (barrow, grave).
Trolls live in cliffs.
Appearance of trolls.
Trolls the size of ten or twelve year old child.
Trolls are usually ugly, hideous, big and strong.
Trolls are black (dark).
Trolls dressed in skins.
Troll in human form.
Troll in human size.
Trolls frightful.
Troll with snout for nose.
Troll in animal form (cat, dog, pig, hen).
Troll as whirlwind.
Great age of trolls.
Characteristic activities of trolls.
Trolls skillful as smiths.
Trolls dance.
Trolls ride.
Troll rides on dog.
Troll rides in whirlwind.
Trolls ride on men and cattle.
Trolls spin and weave fine cloth.
Trolls bake.
Trolls go about at night.
Possessions of trolls.
Trolls' riches.
Trolls' riches inside mountain.
Trolls' food.
Trolls' food gives man supernatural strength.
Trolls eat from golden dishes, but food is frogs and snakes.
Trolls live on food humans have failed to bless.
Visibility of trolls.
Trolls invisible but heard.
Invisible troll attends wedding and eats food.
Trolls have cap of invisibility.
Certain persons can see trolls.
Animals can see trolls.
Trolls visible to unconfirmed children.
Trolls seen through another's arm (or the like).
Trolls and men.
Trolls' friendship with men.
Trolls' lending and borrowing.
Troll repays loan with costly or magic object.
Trolls steal from humans.
Trolls steal fish at Christmas.
Theft from troll.
Troll's costly cup stolen.
Troll's treasure obtained by casting steel on it.
Trolls visit men.
Trolls visit people Christmas Eve.
Trolls carry off people.
Stolen woman saved from trolls' dance.
Trolls as changelings.
Trolls help men.
Trolls help with grain harvest.
Trolls as the constant enemies of humans.
People possessed by trolls.
Trolls and Christianity.
Trolls flee before Christianity.
Troll helpless before sign of Cross.
Trolls may not utter holy names.
Troll killed.
Trolls turn to stone at sunrise.
Trolls killed by lightning.
Banning trolls.
Certain persons can ban trolls.
Recognizing trolls.
Test of troll child.
Offspring of trolls.
Mine spirits.
Knockers (Tommy Knockers, spriggins).
Origin of knockers or spriggins.
Knockers as ghosts of Jews who crucified Christ and who were forced to work Cornish tin mines as punishment.
Knockers as ghosts of giants who formerly lived in area.
Knockers as spirits of dead miners.
Actions of knockers.
Malicious actions of knockers.
Knockers bring ill luck if one whistles in the mine.
Knockers hide tools of miners.
Knockers tamper with dynamite fuses in mine.
Knockers kick rungs out of ladders, cutting off escape of trapped miners.
Knockers lame miners who bother them unduly.
Helpful actions of knockers.
Knockers lead men to the richest lodes in the mines by knocking in those areas.
Knockers do miner's work at night while he is gone.
Knockers test entries and supports by tapping them with hammers.
Knockers appear to miners before accidents occur: the sight of one serves as a warning to leave mine.
Other actions of knockers.
Knockers hold midnight mass deep in mines on Christmas Eve.
Knockers (ghosts of Jews) are compelled to sing carols in mines at Christmastime.
Knockers refrain from work on Saturdays and other Jewish holidays.
Mining spirit: "Bluecap." Bluecap moves coal-tubs for miners.
Mining spirit: "Cutty Soams".
"Cutty" cuts cords by which miners pull tubs full of coal.
Miscellaneous mine spirit motifs.
Fairies operate coal mine.
Mountain spirits as souls of dead.
Appearance of mountain men.
Mountain-man in animal shape.
Mountain-man in shape of hog.
Mountain-wife has breasts so long that she throws them over her shoulder.
Mountain-man carries shears at side like sword.
Dress of mountain-men.
Mountain-men in white caps.
Mountain-men in red caps.
Huldra-woman's cap.
Huldra-women have cow's tails.
Huldra-men with long teeth and nose.
Huldra invisible.
Characteristics of mountain-men.
Mountain-folk afraid of thunder.
Mountain-folk ride through air on horses.
Mountain-men cannot enter house till light is quenched.
Mountain-man has stack of butter before his door.
Huldra have lake.
Huldra live like people.
Huldra have drum.
Huldra have cattle.
Huldra have drinking-horn.
Huldra tend herds in mountains.
Mountain-man must die six times to be dead.
Huldra sing songs.
Mountain spirits eat raw food.
Mountain spirits change sex at will.
Amusements of mountain-folk.
Mountain-folk dance.
Mountain-men play games.
Relation of mountain-men and human beings.
Mountain-girl marries mortal man.
Mountain-men as lovers of herding-girls.
Mountain woman has sex relations with man.
Child from dreamed sex relations with mountain-woman.
Helpful mountain-men.
Mountain-spirits help build palace.
Money left on hill to repay helpful mountain-men.
Mountain-spirit teaches hero swordsmanship.
Mountain-men give children a book.
Huldra trade cattle with men.
Mountain-men leave broken implement for man to mend.
Malevolent mountain-men.
Mountain-men abduct persons.
Woman rescued from mountain-men.
Mountain-men chain captive peasant.
Mountain-men throw person over church roof.
Mountain-men make sausage of Christians.
Mountain-folk steal from peasant.
Mountain-men drive off man's herds.
Mountain-spirit causes shipwreck.
Mountain-men borrow from peasant.
Failure to bless mountains gives mountain-men power.
Mountain-man as godfather.
Visit to mountain-men.
Rьbezahl.
Friar Rush as mischief maker.
Spirits pull off person's bedclothes.
Night-spirits dance.
Dream demons.
Nightmare (Alp).
Actions of nightmares (alps).
Alp rides horse sweaty at night.
Alps dance.
Protection against the nightmare (alp).
Exorcising the nightmare.
Destruction of an alp.
Unbaptized children as nightmares.
Ghost of hunter as nightmare.
Persons who at night become nightmares.
Incubus.
Demon lover.
Succubus: female incubus.
Huckauf.
Poltergeist.
Poltergeist throws objects.
Poltergeist causes objects to behave contrary to their nature.
Chair is rocked by invisible spirit.
Spirit hides articles in strange places.
Spirit puts out lights.
House burns for no apparent reason.
Poltergeist mistreats people.
Poltergeist mistreats animals.
Spirit rides horses and mules at night, wears them out.
Poltergeist makes noises.
Miscellaneous actions of poltergeist.
Spirit tears new paper off rooms in house.
Spirit slashes clothing.
Spirit takes food from table or cupboard.
Spirit eats food.
Spirit throws back shots fired at it.
Spirit makes wheels come off wagon.
Spirit shoves wagon into ditch.
Spirit plays man's fiddle at night.
Spirit disturbs coffins in burial vault.
Friendly night-spirits.
Dame Berchta.
House-spirit in form of a sow.
Serpent as house-spirit.
Thieving household-spirit.
House to make household-spirit (cobold) surrender his booty.
House-spirit in form of baby.
House-spirit without bones or hair.
Cobold.
Acquiring a cobold.
Cobold hatched out from a seven-year-old cock's egg or a boar's testicle.
Cobold purchased.
The purchased cobold discarded.
Cobold acquired by placing food for him in a certain place.
Cobold accidently acquired.
Cobold avenges uncivil answer (or treatment).
Cobolds furnish supplies to their masters.
Cobold furnishes inexhaustible grain to grinder of handmill.
House-spirit furnishes inexhaustible supply of food.
Impossible to rid oneself of cobold.
Brewing in eggshell to drive away cobold.
Brownie (nisse).
Appearance of brownie.
Brownie with red hair.
Clothing of brownie.
Brownie dressed in green.
Home of brownies.
Brownies live in house.
Farmer is so bothered by brownie that he decides he must move to get rid of the annoyance.
Brownies live in knoll.
Nisser belong to particular farm.
Possessions of brownies.
Various-colored horses of brownie.
Nisser have oxen.
Deeds of brownies.
Brownies dance.
Brownies sew by moonlight.
Brownies tease.
Helpful deeds of brownie or other household spirit.
Brownie rides for midwife when needed.
Brownie restores stolen property, gives thief a twitch in eyelid.
Malicious or troublesome actions of brownies.
Origin of household spirits.
House spirits fight each other.
House spirit as suitor.
Ship-spirit.
The stupid house spirit.
Household spirit herds sheep, has great trouble coralling the lambs (rabbits).
Mowing contest with household spirit.
Will-o'-the-Wisp.
Will-o'-the-Wisp leads people astray.
Will-o'-the-Wisp lights people to their homes.
Will-o'-the-Wisp exorcised.
Person led astray by Will-o'-the-Wisp turns garment inside out.
Power of Will-o'-the-Wisp over person neutralized if person sticks his knife into the ground.
Steel protects person from Will-o'-the-Wisp.
Will-o'-the-Wisp hops about.
Will-o'-the-Wisp's revenge.
Death on horseback.
Spirit of plague.
Pestilence in animal form.
Plague as monster.
Spirit enters princess' body and she falls ill.
Pestilence in human form.
Pestilence in form of object.
Pestilence in form of a head.
Pestilence in visible form.
Spirits of various kinds of disease.
Demon of Consumption.
Demon of colic.
Experiences with pestilence spirit.
Person who speaks with pestilence dies.
Two pestilence spirits speak together.
Protection against pestilence spirit.
Upon destruction of pestilence-spirit, plague ceases.
Pestilence-spirit "bound" by magic.
Magic protection against pestilence-spirit.
Demons spread pestilence by means of "heat and fury".
Sign of great plague: sky seems afire.
Land-spirits.
Guardian spirit of land.
Swamp spirit guards buried treasure.
Spirit of boundaries.
Earth spirit.
Stone-spirit.
Demon of gluttony.
Saint possessed by demon of gluttony.
Fire-spirits.
Conversation of two fire-spirits.
Sundry other spirits.
Sky-spirit.
Spirit of light.
Nymphs of Paradise (houris).
Jinns.
Jinns have no bones in their arms: they have only four fingers and no thumbs.
Jinns entitled to share in fruits of the earth.
Jinns frequent graveyards, ruined houses, or an altar of sacrifice.
Person consisting only of head.
Monstrous races.
Person unusual as to his head.
Headless person.
Headless person with eyes (eye) and mouth on breast.
Headless persons cannot smell or hear.
Person with more than one head.
Two-headed person.
Three-headed person.
Three-headed woman.
Four-headed person.
Six-headed man.
Persons whose heads are stone-hammers.
Person with iron head.
Man carries his head under his arm.
Man cuts off own head and throws it against enemy.
Man with half a head.
Beheaded man's head replaced crooked.
Man with venomous worm in his head.
Gigantic skull of ancient king discovered.
Person with animal's head.
Person with horse's head.
Person with calf's head.
Person with serpent's head.
Person unusual as to his face.
Person without features (with flat face).
Two-faced person.
Three-faced person.
Person with animal face.
Person with face of ape.
Person with green face.
Person unusual as to his ears.
Person with ears on breast.
Person with ass's (horse's) ears.
Person with cat's ears.
Person with many ears.
Person without ears.
Person with horns.
Person with horns of silver.
Person unusual as to his eyes.
Person with one eye.
Person with one eye in center of forehead.
Three women have but one eye among them.
Person with one eye in back of head.
Doorkeeper with one human eye, one cat's eye.
Person with many eyes.
Persons (animals) with four (six) eyes.
Three-eyed person.
Eight-eyed person.
Person with twelve eyes.
Argos.
Person with eyes in stomach.
Person with eyes in back of head.
Person without eyes.
Person unusual as to his mouth.
Person with mouth in stomach.
Person with mouths all over body.
Mouthless people.
Person with mouth in breast.
Person unusual as to his teeth.
Three women have but one tooth among them.
Person with many teeth.
Person with three rows of teeth.
Person with poisonous tooth.
Person without teeth.
Person without tongue.
People who leave lower jaws at home when they go to market to prevent quarrels.
Person unusual as to his nose.
Noseless person.
Men with birds' beaks.
Person with cat's snout.
Person with crook(s) on end of the nose.
Person grows a second nose.
Person unusual as to his hands.
Person without hands.
Persons with many hands.
Hundred-handed giants.
Person with unusual fingers.
Person's fingers not separated from one another.
Person with unusual fingernails.
Fingernail that can conceal basin-load of food.
Person with very long fingernails.
Men with tails on their hands.
Boy with seal flippers.
Tribe of left-handed people.
Person unusual as to his arms.
Armless people.
Armless people have legs growing from their shoulders.
People with many arms.
Six-armed earthborn men.
People with four arms.
Man with a thousand arms.
Long-armed people.
Man with elastic reach.
Person unusual as to his legs.
Person with one leg.
Long-legged people.
Man with legs so long he can steady boat as he stands in ocean.
Person unusual as to his feet.
Person without feet.
Person with one foot.
Person with many feet.
Four-footed man.
Men with sponge-feet.
Person with claws on the feet.
Person with knees backwards.
Men whose feet turn backward so that they will not stub toes.
Person with horse's hoofs.
Person with feet like elephant's.
Soles of man's feet covered with hair.
Persons with tails.
Person with unusual covering.
Man covered with hair like animal.
Woman with animal hair.
Feathered people.
Men of metal.
Man of bronze.
Man of iron.
Person with body of gold.
Girl's body-dirt is golden.
Person with golden anus.
Person with body of silver.
Silver king with silver attendants.
Person with wings.
Person with wings on feet (head).
Two persons with bodies joined.
Person with several bodies.
Person with three bodies.
Person with half a body.
One-sided man.
Man with one side of stone (iron).
Man splits into two parts.
Tribe of one-eyed, one-footed, one-handed men.
Person with one foot (one hand, and one eye).
Person (Antichrist) with flat body.
Giant with limbs and organs only on his left side.
Person without back.
Person with compound body.
Typhon.
Scylla.
Gorgon.
Beast-like anchorite.
Men with two faces, three legs, and seven arms (or other such combinations).
Cecrops.
Person of unusual color.
Red person.
Red knight.
Green knight.
Blue man.
Brown man with white back.
Black man.
Half red and half blue strong man.
Other monstrous persons.
Persons with punctured bodies.
People without anuses.
People without anuses make them by sitting on pegs.
Man with grass growing from his joints.
Person has small animal within his body.
Person with transparent body.
Person with enormous belly.
Boneless person.
Person without joints.
Monkey-like little people.
Giant.
Biblical worthy as giant.
Giant as Creator's servant.
Generation of men at the Deluge gigantic.
Giant woman.
Appearance of giant.
Beauty of giant.
Beautiful giantess.
Hideous giant.
Eyes of giant.
Giant with one eye in middle of forehead.
Giant with one eye in the neck which he covers with his lower lip.
Giant with large gleaming eyes.
Giant with eyes as big as cauldrons.
Giant with eyes like ponds.
Blind giant.
Giant sees great distance.
Giant with many eyes.
Giant with eight eyes.
Giantess with green eyes.
Head of giant.
Gigantic head.
Headless giant.
Many-headed giant.
Two-headed giant.
Three-headed giant.
Five-headed giant.
Six-headed giant.
Nine-headed giant.
Ten-headed giant.
Many-headed giant--miscellaneous.
Giant's self-returning head.
Giant with horse head.
Giant with stone head.
Feet (legs) of giant.
Giant with dragon-scales for feet.
Giant with heels in front.
One-footed giant.
One-legged giant.
Giant's step leaves deep furrows.
Giant fleet of foot despite size.
Giant with feet so large they cannot be moved.
Lips of giant.
Giant with upper lip reaching heaven; lower earth.
Giant with lower lip reaching earth.
Giant (giantess) with lips hanging down on the breast.
Breasts of giantess.
Giantess throws her breasts over her shoulders.
Other bodily characteristics of giant.
Giant with nails like claws.
Giantess with iron nails.
Giant with crooked nails.
Giant with teeth like those of saw.
Giants (giantesses) with long teeth.
Giant with very broad teeth.
Giants with shaggy hair on their bodies.
Giant (giantess) with particularly long hair.
Giant without hair.
Giant with long beard.
Giant with golden hair on forehead.
Giant with peculiar nose.
Giant with crook on end of his nose.
One-armed giant.
Three-armed giant.
Giant with six or eight arms.
Giantess with burned arms.
Giant's peculiar cheeks.
Giant rooted to ground because his nails and hair have grown into the earth on account of his great age.
Giant with unusual heart.
Giant with stone heart.
Giant (giantess) with hump.
Giant with one hand and one foot.
Giant's strength in hair.
Giantess with a tail (many tails).
Color of giant.
Green giant.
Black giant.
Giant in animal form.
Giant as wolf.
Giant as serpent.
Giant as eagle.
Giantess in crow's shape.
Giantess transforms self to fly in order to tear woman's stomach.
Giant in a gam's shape.
Giant as eagle.
Giant (giantess) as sea-mammal.
Frost-giants.
Fire giants.
Giants and giantesses dressed as human beings.
Giant bride's equipment.
Size of giant.
Extremely tall giant.
Giant fifteen feet tall with three feet between the eyes.
Giants fifty feet tall with footprints six feet long.
Waters of Deluge reach to giant's ankles.
Giant extends across whole island.
Giant reaches to the sky.
Giantess is twice as tall as tall man.
Giant with three spans between brows and three yards between shoulders.
Giant girl's face is an elbow length wide.
Giant's ears six hundred feet long.
Giant's skull holds a man seated.
Giant's skull so large fowl can pass through eye-hole.
Giant's skull holds three hounds.
Giant's large footprints.
Extremely fat giant.
Giantess is more broad than tall.
Giant lies underground with trees growing all over his body.
Giant so large he cannot be carried by a horse.
Giant can find only one horse able to carry him.
Giant occupies space of thrice nine men.
Giant must rest on elbow while speaking to be audible to mortal.
Demon looks like a mountain.
Man with eyes the size of brass pots, teeth like axeheads, ears like elephant's ears.
Giantess so heavy that boat almost sinks.
Baby giants four months old "two feet broad in the chest and twelve feet high."
Sack of earth in giant's hand looks no bigger than a pea in hand of a man.
Gargantuan feats.
Giant wades the ocean.
Water enters into giant's boots from above.
Giant's leg stops ship at sea.
Giant holds back water of river with his foot.
Thor carries giant in basket across icy stream.
Giant blows to prevent approach of ship.
Giant throws a great rock.
Giants throw stones after churches.
Giant slings stone with his garters (hair ribbon, etc.
Giants throw tools back and forth.
Giant hurls mountain.
Giant astride a church-roof.
Giant eats (drinks) prodigious amount.
Giant eats a thousand cattle.
Giant drinks up a river (lake, sea).
Giant eats whales as small fry.
Giant steps prodigious distance.
Giant bestrides mountain.
Giant's mighty stride spans earth's width.
Giant stands astride river.
Giants carry church across a stream.
Giant comes to bake too soon; spills dough.
Giants' shouts are storms or great noise.
Giant's snoring as thunder or storm.
Giant's snoring felt as rain.
Homecoming giant heard far away.
Giantess sings so that it gives echo in all cliffs.
Earthquake as giant falls down.
Earthquake by giant's wrestling.
Giants sit on mountains and wash feet in stream below.
Giants carry trees.
Giant swallows men.
Giant's hunting (fishing).
Giant threads an elephant on a fish-hook.
Giant fishes whales.
Giantess kills monstrous bear.
Giant (giantess) carries prodigious burden.
Giant carries prodigious hunting-prey (whales, bear).
Giant allows others to cling to him while he swims with them safely across the rivers.
Beam breaks at giant's glance.
Giants' awful amusements, playing with men's lives.
Gigantic possessions of giant.
Giant with mill-wheel as shield.
Giant with gigantic chain as belt.
Knights drink from a huge nine-gallon cup.
Giant with club as large as wheelshaft of mill.
Giant's enormous weapons.
Giant with iron club as weapon.
Giant with iron bar as weapon.
Giant has stone club.
Giant has stone shield.
Giant has enormous spear.
Giant wears enormous jewel.
Giant's clothes.
Giants dressed in skin.
Giants wear skins with flesh still on.
Giantess in obscenely shriveled skin skirt.
Giants wear long coats with lamps under them.
Giantess in red dress.
Giant has stone as boat.
Giant's huge kettle.
Giant's enormous bed.
Giant's enormous animals.
Giants have wolf and bears as dogs.
Foxes as giant's lice.
Giant's net can hem in whole forest.
Giants and men.
Giant friendly to man.
Giant carries man in his pocket (glove, bosom).
Giant carries man in sack.
Giant carries man on his back.
Giant carries man on brim of his hat.
Giant carries man under his belt.
Giants and men fraternize at Christmas.
Man mistakes giant's glove for house.
Giant's toy.
Giant thinks hammer-blow on head is a nut falling.
Giant thinks shower of stones is snowfall.
Giant's head gnawed by foxes: thinks soot is falling on him.
Giants repay loan with large interest.
Giants' gifts to men.
Giants' magic gifts return to original form in hands of men.
Giant's present: magic loaf producing inexhaustible harvest.
Giant's presents cease when source is disclosed.
Giants marry human beings.
Giant wooes mortal woman.
Giant demands girl, but is killed in duel about her.
Giantesses pursue men in order to marry them.
Mortal son of giant.
Mortal son of man and giantess.
Giantess daughter of giant and abducted maiden (therefore helps hero).
Giants and Christians.
Giants hostile to Christianity.
Giants exorcised by clergy.
Giants Christianized.
The giant on the ark.
Giant as servant to man.
Giant driven by girl.
Giant maidens grind gold, peace, soldiers, salt, etc., on large stone mill.
Giant in contest with man.
Giant wins walking contest against man.
Footrace between giant and mortal.
Giant insults hero by shaving his head and smearing it with cow dung.
Giants like butter more than anything else.
Man kills giant's baby.
Giants cause men to sin.
Other giant motifs.
Origin of giants.
Sons of God and Daughters of men.
Giant is transformed man.
Giant son of black cat.
Gigantic son of king and mermaid.
Giants as personifications.
Giant made of the venom from Elivagar.
Giants as sons of Ymir or Aurgelmir.
Giants as reincarnated animals.
Giants as descendants of Cain.
Haunts of giants.
Giants in "Risaland" or "Jotunheimar" without nearer definition.
Giants live in mountains or caves.
Giants live under water.
Giants live under sea.
Giant lives under lake.
Giant's home beneath waterfall in lake.
Giants' live in the east.
Giants live in the utmost northwest.
Giants live at the world's end.
Giants in a region of darkness and cold.
Giants in wild forests.
Homes of giants.
Men not to disclose giant's home.
Giants live in castles (raths, duns) (ruins of which may still be seen).
Giant lives in fairyland.
Age of giants.
Giants have great age.
Giants live to be eighteen thousand years old.
Giant immortal.
Giants as magicians.
Giants can make selves invisible.
Giants large or small at will.
Giant has wound-healing balm.
Giants as controllers of the elements.
Giants as builders of great structures.
Giants by night move buildings built by men in day.
Giant builds hill for his home.
Giant digs trench for course of Severn River.
Giant makes cleft in rock when he misses another giant with spade blow.
Giant and his wife build Roman road in a trice.
Giant's treasure.
Giant possesses treasure.
Giants have animals (dogs, etc.
Giants' ship (Naglfar).
Giant obtains treasure from man.
Giant steals from man (fish, sheep, sword).
Mutual relations of giants.
Giant in love with giantess.
Giants pursue giant women.
Enmity (competition) between giants.
Giants and giantesses fight about treasures.
Giant steals from giant.
Giants wrestle with each other.
Giants' festivities.
One giant invites another to a feast (wedding).
Giants' social relations.
Giants have king, queen.
Giants have parliament.
Giants have children.
Giants meet successively larger giants.
Giant does not grow until another giant causes him to do so.
Giants as warriors (in army).
Other occupations of giants.
Giant as smith.
Antipathies of giants.
Giants fear lightning.
Disappearance or death of giants.
Disappearance of giants.
Giant disappears in mist.
Giant cursed.
Sunlight turns giant or troll to stone.
Slain giant turns to salt stone.
Giants killed by lightning or thunder (personified in the thunder-god).
Giant killed by earthquake.
Giant slain by man.
Giant destroyed by army.
Giants driven away by men.
Giant drowned.
Giants drowned (in Ymir's blood).
Giant drowned in Deluge.
Graves of giants.
Giants enchanted in caverns.
Giant enchanted in car.
Ghost of giant.
Giants and supernatural beings.
Giants and gods in fight.
Love relations between giants and other supernatural beings.
Giants and dwarfs friendly.
Attendants of the giants.
Giants' watchman (Eggther).
Giant's animals help him in fight.
Man as servant of giant.
Other acts of giants.
Giants dance.
Giant inflates self and floats through air.
Giant flies over water like bird.
Eagle carries giant to its nest.
Giant plays musical instrument.
Giant herdsman.
Giant rolls like wheel.
Giants are wise.
Remarkably broad man.
Remarkably tall man.
Pygmy.
Pygmies descendants of Cain.
Thumbling.
Adventures of thumbling.
Thumbling drives wagon by sitting in horse's ear.
Thumbling drives mule.
Thumbling carried up chimney by steam of food.
Thumbling lies by sleeping man.
Thumbling in danger of being sucked in by man's breath.
Thumbling lost in animal track.
Thumbling has cat as riding-horse.
Thumbling swallowed by animals.
Thumbling imprisoned in a sausage.
Thumbling sold as freak.
Thumbling hides in small place.
Thumbling hides under thimble in table drawer.
Thumbling hides in a snail shell, in a mouse hole.
Thumbling as accomplice to robbers.
Thumbling steals by entering keyhole.
Thumbling carries needle as sword.
Thumbling carried in pocket.
Thumbling carried on hat brim.
Pygmies of various sizes.
Pygmies nine inches tall.
Man so small he can go through eye of needle.
Man so small he dances in spider web.
Man so small he can put his head through a mote in a sunbeam.
Man so small that he rides on an ant.
Pygmy stands on man's hand.
Person (poet, child) only "fist high." Little soldiers with officer on rabbit (long needles and
knives for weapons).
Dress of pygmies.
Pygmies dressed in copper.
Pygmies dressed in red.
Characteristics of pygmies.
Sexes of pygmies distinguished.
Pygmies with upturned feet.
Noseless pygmies.
Deeds of pygmies.
War of pygmies and cranes.
Battle between giants and dwarfs; dwarfs win.
Kingdom of pygmies.
Underground pygmy kingdom.
Remarkable eyes.
Flashing eyes.
Eyes flash fire.
Eyes flash lightning.
Eyes of live coals.
Serpent-eye.
Eye with picture in the pupil.
Eye with several pupils.
Eye with two pupils.
Eye with three pupils.
Eye with four pupils.
Eye with seven pupils.
Eye must be rubbed before it can see.
One of man's (giant's) eyes protrudes, other recedes.
Single eye protrudes from forehead.
Eyes remarkable as to color.
One eye brown, other blue.
Person has red eye.
Eye with remarkably heavy lid.
Eye recedes into head.
Eyes shed tears of blood.
Eyes impervious to iron lances.
Removable eyes.
Remarkable ears.
Long ears.
Big ears.
Remarkable nose.
Remarkably long nose.
Long nose used as poker.
Long nose used as hen roost.
Remarkably long, hooked nose.
Remarkably large nose.
Nose turned upside down.
Remarkable nostrils.
Remarkable mouth.
Remarkably large mouth.
Mouth opens so wide that lungs (gullet) may be seen.
Man's mouth, from fear of sea-monster under lake, "distended to both his ears."
Mouth of man emits flames when open for speech.
Mouth open to drink for forty days.
Remarkable lips.
Upper lip curls over nostril; lower hangs down to neck.
When sad, man lets one lip fall to stomach; other makes hood over his head.
Lips on side of face.
Lips used as a spear.
Remarkable tongue.
Golden tongue.
Long tongue.
Long tongue cut out and used to bridge a stream.
Tongue with hair growing from it.
Tongue with thorns.
Remarkable teeth.
Golden teeth.
Teeth of angered saint give off sparks.
Luminous tooth of saint.
Blue teeth.
Blue, protruding teeth of one and a half elbow-length.
Saints' teeth last for 300 years.
Remarkably long teeth.
Tooth travels automatically.
Other facial features.
Remarkable beard.
Beardless man.
Blue beard.
Green beard.
Golden mustache.
Beard projected over beams of great hall.
Beard grows through table.
Beard shelters fifty men from rain.
Bearded woman.
Enormously fat woman with beard.
Beard travels detached from owners.
Remarkable forehead.
Gold star on forehead.
Horns on forehead.
Man with inscription on forehead.
Man with forehead of iron.
Remarkable cheek.
One cheek white, other red.
Yellow, green, blue, purple spot on cheek.
Face covered with long moss.
Remarkable breast.
Breast broad and made of glittering metal.
Woman with three breasts.
Star (cross) on breast.
Thorns around nipples.
Woman with breasts hot enough to cook food.
Milk in man's breast.
Remarkable sexual organs.
Toothed private parts.
Vagina dentata.
Hermaphrodite.
Hermaphrodite pygmies.
Extraordinary penis.
Long penis.
Penis that eats and drinks.
Toothed penis.
Penis tatooed with name of God.
Man's genitals hidden in his body.
Penis cuts down trees.
Extraordinary clitoris.
Extraordinary vagina.
Removable vagina.
Enormous vagina.
Eye in vagina.
Double vagina.
Vagina as bag.
Vagina in forehead.
Vagina in armpit.
Saw in vagina.
Hair in vagina which becomes a mantis.
Woman with privates like dog's.
Remarkable pubic hairs.
Remarkably long pubic hair.
Enormous testicles.
Remarkable legs.
Pointed leg.
Person with black knee.
Person with white knee.
Remarkable feet.
Animal foot on human being.
Man with snake-like feet.
Person with horse's foot.
Woman with horseshoe on one foot.
Man with dog's feet.
Feet with unusual number of toes.
Remarkably pretty white feet.
Remarkably ugly feet (and hands).
Single-footed people lie on their backs and shade themselves from sun with their soles.
Remarkable hands.
Hands with unusual fingers.
Hands with unusual number of fingers.
Fingers of saint (angel) give light or fire.
Extraordinary fingernails.
Human fingers not separated.
Milk from finger.
Remarkably strong hands.
Remarkably pretty white hands.
Marvelous hand without wrist.
Person remarkable as to his blood.
Person with pink fluid in place of blood.
Person with extraordinary amount of blood.
Remarkable hair.
Gold hair.
Person with hair partially golden.
Silver hair.
Very long hair.
Hair recedes into head.
Nude woman clothed in own hair (Godiva).
Girl's hair spreads on ground so that it hides her.
Holy man's hair of enormous length, so long has he remained praying at one spot.
Hair so long that girl can cover herself with it.
Rapid growth of hair as protection against being seen nude.
Very thick hair.
Multi-colored hair.
Person with three heads of hair.
Man has drop of blood on end of each hair.
Poisonous white hair in eyebrow that causes death to the first person who sees it each day.
Hair so stiff that apples falling on it would be impaled.
Hair above heart so stiff it rends five garments.
Hair so curly that nuts falling on it would be held.
Hair emits sound.
Remarkable voice.
Voice made rough by swallowing hot iron.
Voice made smooth by swallowing hot iron.
Voice made smooth by having ant bite tongue.
Voice changed by work of silversmith (goldsmith).
Voice changed by medicine.
Saint's voice heard from considerable distance.
Removable organs.
Removable brain.
Man covered with horn.
Double-skinned tribe.
Remarkable physical organs--miscellaneous.
Person with jointless bodies of bone.
Long navel.
Extraordinary excrement.
Excreta is so fiery it starts great fires.
Remarkable skull.
Skull has words miraculously written on it.
Remarkable neck.
Neck as hard as ivory.
Extraordinary stomach.
Stomach attains immense proportions by overeating.
Remarkable heart.
Person with three hearts.
Adder grows in heart of man.
Extraordinary urine.
Person's urine melts rocks.
People of unusual diet.
People who prefer raw flesh.
Ichthyophages.
People who live on coconuts.
Person lives by smoking tobacco.
Girl eats only kola nuts and tobacco.
Woman fed by bees' dropping honey into her mouth (lie).
Boy drinks perspiration.
Iron-eating tribe.
People of unusual residence.
Boy lives on ox.
Residence in a tree.
Residence in (under) water.
Girl lives in fruit and comes out only to be bathed by her twenty sisters.
Boy lives in ant-hill.
Person never sleeps.
Person of diabolical origin never sleeps.
Semi-supernatural person sleeps little.
Person does not sleep for many months (years).
Long sleep, long waking.
Person sleeps for three days and nights.
King sleeps for six days and acquires after that magic wisdom.
Person sleeps for nine months.
Spirit woman sleeps through whole year; eats through the next.
Twelve years' sleep customary to demons.
Man sleeps with one eye and one ear open.
Women warriors or hunters.
Amazons.
Amazons cut off left breast of daughters so that they can handle bow.
All male children killed by Amazons.
Queen takes husband's place in battle.
Remarkably strong women.
Parliament of women.
Women hunters.
Celibate peoples.
Village of men only.
Country which no woman may enter.
Land where women live separate from men.
Wild man.
Wild woman.
Naked tribe.
Naked men (boy).
Unusual manner of life--miscellaneous.
Woman lays eggs and hatches them.
Men menstruate.
Silent person.
Silent princess.
Extremely old person.
Old man with hanging eyelids.
Sending to the older.
Sending to the older uncle.
Very old woman.
Woman so old her chin reaches her knee.
Man so old he sleeps in cradle.
King so old that he only can take food from a horn.
King so old that he cannot get on horseback without help.
Person hundreds of years old.
Man lives for nine generations.
Dancers upon whom icicles hang.
Negro so black that he makes whole garden somber.
Luminous person.
Resplendent beauty.
Woman's beauty burns onlooker.
Woman's beauty shows through seven veils.
Men killed by look of beautiful princess.
Man's beauty eclipses splendor of sun.
Man with luminous arms.
Holy man (hero) emits light.
Face of saint radiant.
Holy man radiant.
Hero luminous.
Remarkable beauty.
Remarkably beautiful woman.
Birth of daughter so beautiful mother is frightened and abandons her.
Old woman beautiful as in youth.
Woman so beautiful sea is calm for her.
Handsome man.
Supernatural beauty of men in Messianic era.
Supernatural beauty of Jerusalem's inhabitants.
Remarkably beautiful child.
Extraordinary ugliness.
Persons identical in appearance.
Friends identical in appearance.
Brothers identical in appearance.
King and fool identical in appearance.
Lovers identical in appearance.
All people in certain place identical in appearance.
Poison damsel.
Serpent damsel.
Man spews venom.
Venomous man.
Hero has lain motionless since birth.
Person remarkably light in weight.
Princess' weight that of five flowers.
Phantoms.
Fairy (god) as phantom.
Fatal enticements of phantom women.
Magic phantom army.
Phantom women cause weakness.
Treasure struck from hand of phantom.
Person who never laughs.
Prince who never laughs.
Sad-faced princess cannot laugh.
Man's ferocious glance kills (causes swooning).
Person's extraordinary body temperature.
Extraordinary heat of body melts snow far around person.
Man whose entrails are visible when he laughs.
Man's body exudes sweet scent.
Extraordinarily slow person.
Woman without womb.
Old woman gives miraculous amount of milk.
Extraordinary companions.
Skillful companions.
Extraordinary companions perform hero's tasks.
Extraordinary companions help hero in suitor tests.
Extraordinary companions betray hero.
Extraordinary companions rescue hero.
Extraordinary companion hides behind hero to trick enemy.
Extraordinary companion saves hero from death.
Extraordinary companions are brothers (twins, triplets).
Extraordinary companions are transformed animals.
Animals as extraordinary companions.
Remarkably strong woman.
Remarkably strong women defeats man in arrow and spear contest.
Wild man of superhuman strength.
Dwarf-hero of superhuman strength.
Warrior of special strength (Berserk).
Invulnerable berserk.
Black berserk.
Twelve berserks.
Two berserk-brothers.
Fighting with berserks.
Fighting with twelve berserks.
Single combat with berserk.
Berserk killed in combat about maiden.
Competition with berserks in their particular sports: walk through fire, etc.
Man with strength of many men.
Man with four men's strength.
Man with twelve men's strength.
Man with seventy men's strength.
Man with strength of animals.
Man with strength of lion.
Man with strength of ten elephants.
Man so strong that he breaks most of what he gets in touch with.
Man so strong that he must be chained except when in battle.
Strong man is so heavy that no horse can carry him all day.
Strong man so heavy that only his own horse can carry him.
Strong man accomplishes superhuman tasks when God's spirit is over him.
Strong man's birth and rearing.
Strong man's birth.
Strong man son of bear who has stolen his mother.
Strong man son of woman and dwarf.
Strong man son of woman and forest spirit.
Wild man son of woman and satyr who overpowers her.
Wild man son of woman and robber.
Strong man son of man and she-bear.
Strong man son of man and mare.
Strong man accused of being son of man and mare.
Strong man son of person and giant.
Strong hero engendered by eating of fruit.
Strong hero engendered by the wind.
Strong hero engendered from burning brand.
Strong hero born from egg.
Strong hero born from noodle.
Strong hero struck by smith from iron.
Strong hero son of man and troll-woman.
Strong hero son of woman of sea.
Strong hero son of wood-spirit.
Strong hero's suckling.
Hero's unusual strength from drinking his own mother's milk.
Strong hero suckled by animal.
Strong hero suckled by mermaid.
Strong hero's long nursing.
Strong hero suckled by seven women.
Strong hero suckled by giant.
Strong hero acquires his strength.
Extraordinary strength from fasting for 12 years and eating nothing except earth.
Strong hero practices uprooting trees.
Hero's precocious strength.
Strong hero drives huge log into frozen ground.
Baby tied to a mill-stone by strap so he would not wander about; drags stone after him.
Precocious hero crushes iron wall with fists.
Precocious hero jumps across river.
Small child beats giant challenger.
Twelve year old hero captures town of father's enemy.
Strong hero tests weapons.
Precocious strong hero demands bows and arrows.
Hero tests sword by cutting steer in two.
Strong hero tests scythes: they break all.
Precocious son saves kingdom.
Strong hero sent from home.
Strong hero sent from home because of enormous appetite.
Strong hero kills (overcomes) playmates: sent from home.
Hero leaves home with giant equipment.
Giant cane for strong man.
Strong man with giant hammer and shield.
Strong man makes labor contract.
Strong man's labor contract: blow at end of year.
Strong man's labor contract: all grain he can carry.
Labor contract: as much money as my companion (strong man) can carry.
Strong man's labor contract: anger bargain.
Strong man serves ogre as punishment for stealing food.
Strong man's labors.
Strong man drives anvil into ground.
Strong man uproots tree and uses it as weapon.
Strong man uses pillar-stone as weapon.
Strong man uses rafter as weapon.
Strong man buries axe in tree stump and removes it with his little finger.
Strong man as gardener: destroys plants.
Strong man as rower; breaks boat.
Strong man as rower: rows one side of boat against many at other.
Strong man as fisherman: destroys fish and nets.
Strong man throws trees on roof and breaks it.
Strong man throws man back and breaks his bones (legs).
Strong man uses stable-roof as flail.
Strong man fells tree with one blow of axe.
Strong man clears plain.
Strong hero fights whole army alone.
Strong man jumps across rivers.
Youth crushes coins to powder with fingers.
Strong man evades death.
Death of strong man.
Strong man sent to devil's mill: drives devils to master's house.
Strong hero sent for wild animals.
Strong man sent to milk lions: brings lions back with him.
Strong man sent to kill lions: does so and frightens king.
Strong man sent for wild horses: brings them back.
Strong man sent for bears: bring them back home.
Strong man sent for wolves: brings them back home.
Strong hero overawes master.
Strong hero attacked with millstone puts it on as collar.
Strong hero asks that chickens stop scratching.
Camels having fallen from sky into girl's eyes; she tells her mother that some grains of sand have fallen down from sky.
Spear bends as it strikes hero on chest and he survives ordeal.
Mighty pugilist.
Mighty wrestler.
Extraordinary strength; elephant-wrestler.
Strong man tames animals.
Strong hero tames ungovernable horse.
Strong man: tree-puller.
Trees pulled up by animals.
Trees pulled up by giant.
Trees pulled up and thrust into the ground upside down by Antichrist, a giant.
Giant polishes teeth with uprooted tree.
Tree as strong man's umbrella.
Mighty blower.
Mighty blower slows down princess with his breath.
Mighty blower blows firebrand so that sparks fly far, blows seawaves back and forth.
Strong man holds up mountain.
Mighty lifter.
Saint as mighty lifter.
Strong man lifts horse (ox, ass).
Strong man throws elephant across sea.
Strong man throws walrus.
Strong man throws leopard.
Strong man lifts large stone.
Strong man throws enormous stone.
Strong man throws mountain.
Strong man moves enormous rock.
Strong man lifts millstone.
Strong man lifts large stone with one hand.
Strong hero lifts cart.
Strong man throws carriage with horses and driver on top of haystack and breaks the driver's ribs.
Strong man lifts plow.
Strong man lifts ton of rye.
Strong hero lifts house.
Strong man carries boat (ship).
Strong man throws opponent into the air.
Little girl moves enormous bow which nobody could ever carry before.
Strong man carries bellows.
Strong man: breaker of iron.
Hero drives spear through seven iron plates.
Strong man pulls down mountains.
Strong man flattens hill (lops off hilltop).
Strong man kicks mountain down.
Strong man pulls down building.
Strong man as mighty slayer.
Precocious strong hero as mighty slayer.
Strong man kills animals with own hands.
Strong man slays monster.
Strong man kills lion with own hands.
Strong man kills tiger single-handed.
Strong man kills leopard.
Strong man kills jaguar.
Strong man kills bear.
Strong man kills wolves in sea.
Man kills ox with flat of hand.
Man kills cow with flat of hand.
Man swings wild steer by horns round and round till it is stunned, casts it to ground.
Strong man kills great serpent.
Man kills serpents, toads, dragons with own hands.
Child tears to pieces a live snake with his bare hands.
Strong hero kills aquatic animal with own hands.
Strong hero kills many crocodiles with own hands.
Strong hero kills sharks with own hands.
Strong hero kills walrus with own hands.
Strong man kills giant dog.
Strong hero fells two maddened elephants.
Strong man kills men.
Strong man kills many men at once.
Strong man throws another from walls.
Strong man kills giant.
Army of strong men.
Strong man kills men with own hands.
Strong man kills many with hammer.
Strong man uses man as weapon.
Strong man kills robber with a snap of his finger.
Strong man cleaves horse and rider in two with sword.
Strong man slays spectre.
Strong man's mighty spear-cast (sword blow).
Strong man plunges sword into stone.
Strong hero wields many weapons at once.
Strong man carries giant load.
Strong man drags mill.
Strong man carries off city gates.
Strong man carries off door-frame and frame of smoke-hole.
Strong man swims carrying fifty (many) companions.
Strong man carries ox on the back.
Strong man carries heavy oxhide on the hand.
Strong man carries huge beam.
Strong men knock on door with beam of twenty elbow-lengths.
Man carries a beam eighteen feet in length and cuts path through jungle at same time.
Mighty eater.
Mighty drinker.
Mighty fisherman.
Strong man bathing and diving in river catches thousands of fishes in his beard.
Remarkable spitter.
Remarkable thrower.
Remarkable thrower of iron.
Remarkable thrower of chips.
Remarkable pourer of water.
Remarkable stone-thrower.
Hero throws up a stone: before it falls, he drinks a full jar empty.
Strong man catches stones hurled from catapults by enemy and throws them back upon the besiegers.
Strong man's stone-throw carries away roof-timber.
Hero catches a giant jug and pitches it about.
Strong man holds back ship.
Mighty archer.
Arrow shot thirty miles high.
Arrow shot down years after the shot.
Man is waiting for bird to fall that he had shot eight days before.
Strong man shoots arrow as far as otherworld.
Extraordinary powers--miscellaneous.
Mighty digger.
Mighty digger of tunnels.
Strong man's finger digs into ground with such force that water gushes out.
Mighty diver.
Strong man's shield-cast annihilates fleeing enemy and chariot.
Strong man overcomes giant.
Strong man kicks through heavy door.
Strong man tears boat apart with hands.
Man presses out twelve measures of oil without the help of bullocks.
Palace shakes when strong man gets upon its roof.
Strong man crushes ribs of person he embraces.
Strong man's anger: bites brass rods in anger and spits them out as powder.
Strong man grinds huge rocks into powder.
Nine hundred horses draw chariot in which strong man rides.
Person of remarkable hearing.
Man can hear grass (wool) grow.
Man can hear ant leave nest fifty miles away.
Man can hear one sleeping by putting ear to ground.
Person of remarkable sight.
Remarkable star-gazer.
Person of remarkable sight finds tracks of swine stolen seven years before his birth.
Person can see through opaque objects.
Person of remarkable sight can see through hearts of trees.
Remarkable sight of sage lets him see worm in loaf.
Blind man is able to see two unborn rats within mother rat.
Person sees equally well by night or day.
Man can see celestial nymphs dancing in divine world.
One-eyed barber sees thread of silk stretching to sea.
Person of remarkable sight can see the soul.
Person sees enormous distance.
Marvelously wise man.
Wise man answers all questions.
Man knows exactly how many grains are in a measure.
Marvelous sensitiveness.
Marvelous sensitiveness: meat (wine) tastes of corpse.
Extraordinary gustatory sense.
Marvelous sensitiveness: suffering from merely seeing work done.
Marvelous sensitiveness: injury from rose leaves falling.
Marvelous sensitiveness: women blush in presence of male statue.
Marvelous sensitiveness: woman refuses to look at male fish.
Marvelous sensitiveness: woman smells like a goat.
Marvelous sensitiveness: meat is dog's flesh.
Marvelous sensitiveness: food has been raised in particular kind of manure.
Marvelous sensitiveness: man recognizes milk of his stolen cows.
Marvelous sensitiveness: wine shows through woman's white throat.
Marvelous sensitiveness: ulcer from moon's rays.
Marvelous sensitiveness: fainting from noise of wooden pestle and mortar.
Marvelous sensitiveness: fracture from hearing man chopping wood.
Marvelous sensitiveness: stitch in side from being told about hearing a man chopping wood.
Marvelous sensitiveness: blister on back from lying in rose leaves.
Prince thinks he has slept on a beam; a hair is found on lower bedding.
Marvelous sensitiveness: man feels little point of simple thorn in middle of his clothes.
Marvelous sensitiveness: man refuses to eat fifth descendent of stolen cow.
Marvelous sensitiveness: clarified butter was someone's leavings.
Girl (princess) so delicate she can live only on the perfume of flowers.
Extraordinary sympathy (telepathic) with wild animals.
Remarkable power to walk directly to nearest water.
Marvelous sense of smell.
Man identifies picker of berries by their scent.
Man smells pots boiling 400 miles off.
Remarkable power of recognition.
Extraordinary perception of blind men.
Blind man able to recognize real pearls by their smell, diamonds by touch, a good horse by screwing its ears, and raja of noble birth
by his generosity.
Blind tiger recognizes by man's voice that he is a hypocrite.
Brothers acquire extraordinary skill.
Unskilled man made skillful by saint's blessing.
Follower of a saint is miraculously made a famous preacher.
Skillful marksman.
Skillful marksman shoots meat from giant's hands.
Skillful marksman shoots pipe from man's mouth.
Skillful marksman shoots apple from man's head.
Skillful marksman shoots spear through nose-ring.
Skillful marksman shoots eggs scattered over table.
Archer shoots eggs through middle.
Archer shoots and marks egg in nest without breaking it or disturbing other eggs.
Skillful marksman can hit egg from great distance.
Skillful marksman shoots animal (man) through eye.
Skillful marksman shoots serpent through left eye.
Skillful marksman shoots bird through eye.
Skillful marksman shoots left eye of fly at two miles.
Skillful marksman shoots both eyes of an ogre.
Marvelous marksman can shoot eye off needle at quarter-mile distance.
Skillful bowman shoots crater of Vesuvius open.
Skillful marksman throws needles.
Skillful marksman throws rushes into a curtain.
Skillful marksman throws swords and scabbards so that swords are sheathed in air.
One arrow shot into end of last one to make rope of arrows.
Skillful marksman casts lance through ring.
Skillful marksman casts lance through hole in leaf.
Skillful marksman grazes ear of sleeping person and awakens him.
Husband shoots arrows, barely missing wife's ears.
Man shoots pearls from wife's nose-ring.
Skillful archer uses arrow as boomerang.
Hero shoots arrow and cuts thread.
Skillful tailor.
Woman skillful in sewing.
Woman sews nine garments at a time with one needle.
Skillful tailor sews up broken eggs.
Birds hatched from broken eggs repaired by skillful tailor have red line around necks.
Skillful tailor sews together scattered planks in capsizing boat.
Skillful tailor sews bean together after bean has split from laughing.
Skillful smith.
Skillful smith calls self master of all masters.
Skillful smith shoes running horse.
Clever smith makes needle that pierces anvil.
Skillful flayer.
Skillful flayer skins running rabbit.
Woman flays running deer.
Skillful barber.
Skillful barber shaves running hare.
Skillful axe-man.
Skillful axe-man makes spear-shafts with three chippings.
Skillful fencer (swordsman).
Skillful fencer keeps sword dry in rain.
Man able to strike every arrow with his sword and reduce it to splinters.
Expert swordsman cuts clothes bag in two.
Skillful surgeon.
Skillful physician.
Skillful surgeon removes and replaces vital organs.
Skillful surgeon removes speck from midge's eye.
Man can transplant feather from one bird to another.
Skillful surgeon can tell by whom wound was inflicted.
New arm made from another man's arm bone.
Skillful shipbuilder.
Rapid boat-builder can build boat in twinkling of an eye.
Man can keep together feathers in great wind.
Skillful painter.
Ingenious carpenter.
King makes a wooden peacock machine for his son.
Moonmakers make new moon.
Carpenter constructs house of sandalwood which will go wherever owner commands.
Skillful carpenter constructs large palace overnight.
Skillful thief.
Thief can eat from man's plate during dinner without detection.
Thief can cut soles off man's boots without detection as he walks along road.
Skillful tracker.
Skillful tracker infallible on land or sea.
Skillful milker.
Skillful milker milks cows incessantly.
Remarkable skill--miscellaneous.
Remarkable herdsman.
Man can lengthen swords by twirling them between his fingers.
Man can walk (stand) on weapon edge (point) without injury.
Man can stand on barrel rolling down hill.
Skillful hunter.
Skillful hunter manages hounds.
Skillful hunter can tell from baying the succession of hounds and what quarry they pursue.
Man kills many tigers with one arrow-shot.
Seven stags killed at one shot.
Skillful cast of stone: carries away roof tree of burning house and so puts out fire.
Skillful gambler always wins.
Skill at chess-playing.
Skillful musician plays nine mouth harps at once.
Marvelous runner.
Marvelous runner keeps leg tied up.
Marvelous runner outstrips March wind.
Marvelous runner swift as thought.
Contest between runner swift as thought and one swift as sight.
Marvelous runner swift as sight.
Marvelous runner can run round earth in five minutes.
Marvelous runner catches wild game on the run.
Man can outstrip wild mare, hold her, and bridle her.
Marvelous runner runs backwards.
Marvelous runner captures two of every wild animal.
Man who is too heavy for any horse walks faster than horseback riders.
Marvelous swift plower.
Marvelous swift mower.
Runner runs so swiftly that he does not snap the ears of wheat (bend grass).
Boy runs so fast snow makes rainbow behind him.
Man can stand all day on one foot.
Person (warrior) uses only one leg, one hand, one eye.
Sparks come from man's feet.
Sparks come from man's hands.
Fire drops from fingers of warrior whenever he wills it.
Marvelous jumper.
Marvelous climber.
Marvelous withstander of cold.
Body with marvelous heat.
Cauldron warmed by breath of nine maidens.
Room heated by crowded corpses kept on hand by ghoulish ogres.
Remarkable fragrance (odor) of person.
Man with marvelous voice.
Man's voice shakes heavens.
Man's shout remains in air three days.
Voice heard over whole land.
Walls fall because of great shout.
Man can breathe nine days under water.
Hero battles under lake for a day and night.
Person with remarkable memory.
Whole epic remembered from one hearing.
Wounds inflicted by certain man always fatal.
Saint passes through closed doors.
Extraordinary reading ability.
Reading without learning the alphabet.
Extraordinary amount read in short time.
Learning to read in extraordinarily short time.
Miraculous ability to learn to read and to write foreign language in short time.
Marvelous swimmer.
Marvelous ball player.
Culture hero as marvelous ball player.
Saint as marvelous ball player.
Marvelous juggler.
Hero throws ball, bat, dart (playthings) and catches them before they reach ground.
Performing on spear points.
Catching 150 toy spears in shield.
Additional marvelous powers.
Marvelous dancer.
Land of plenty.
Milk and honey flow in land.
Land of the Blessed.
Land of fire.
Lands with extraordinary names.
Land of cold and mist.
Artificial paradise and hell to punish and reward.
Land of darkness.
Extraordinary kingdom.
Kingdom where everything is of gold.
Kingdom where everything is of silver.
Kingdom where everything is of diamond.
Kingdom where everything is of pearl.
Countries with one conspicuous lack.
Country without cats.
Country without grain.
Country without wine.
Other extraordinary countries.
Country of the naked.
Country of little girls.
Country of thieves and impostors.
Extraordinary bodies of water.
Water resembling fire.
Extraordinary sea.
Sea issues from marvelous cask.
Sea of unusual substance.
Sea of milk.
Sea of cream.
Sea of pumice.
Sea of slime.
Sea of honey.
Sea of unusual color.
White sea.
Red sea.
Fresh water in sea.
Stream of fresh water flows through the sea.
Well hidden in sea.
Aroma of sea as of wine.
Sea with fishes with bodies like men and sharp razor-like snouts.
Extraordinary pond (lake).
Pond of ambrosia.
Bottomless lakes (pools, etc.).
Extremely deep water.
Lake monster turning over causes lake to overflow surrounding mountains.
Pond of milk.
Pond always clear because deity uses it for his bath.
Lake of blood.
Extraordinary river.
Extraordinary source of river.
River issues from magic nut.
River issues from pillar.
River from man's finger.
River flows from man's head.
River flows from man's mouth.
River of extraordinary fluid.
River of blood.
River of mercury.
River of milk.
River of honey.
River of tears.
Rivers with marvelous underground connections.
Undersea river.
Marvelous stream containing little black fish bursts forth from mountain.
Stream runs through house.
River which never freezes.
River that burns like fire.
River which petrifies anyone passing through it.
Kingdom where seven rivers meet.
Red river.
River whose specific gravity is so slight nothing can float on it.
Extraordinary fountain.
Fountain gives water on Wednesdays and Fridays.
Fountain has taste of wine.
Spring with water lighter than wood and with scent of violets.
Fountain hot or cold as desired.
Fountain jet which remains immovable.
Musical fountain in otherworld.
Extraordinary pool.
Pool paved with gold.
Poison pool.
Extraordinary well.
Well located under sea.
Perfectly round well contains vari-colored water.
Well of wine.
Well water tastes like oil, wine, and honey.
Well shines at night.
Well overflow cannot be seen.
Well flows full on Sunday.
Extraordinary well of blood.
Glittering well.
Well in shape of a sieve-like rock, out of which water gushes forth.
Well shoots up high as pillars, and discharges itself into navigable streams.
Origin of springs from broken coconut shell.
Submarine and subterranean world.
Subterranean world.
Underground passages.
Tunnel of crystal four miles long.
Habitable hill.
Habitable hill raised on four pillars.
Monster guards door of habitable hill.
Sorcerer and books in mountain.
Underground kingdom.
King of underground kingdom.
Underground kingdom reached in a box which was swallowed by a dragon and later released.
Underground treasure chambers.
Subterranean castle.
Underground palace full of jewels.
Submarine world.
Steps to submarine world.
Submarine cities.
Submarine castle (palace).
Submarine castle on a mountain.
Castle under lake.
Undersea house.
Splendid palace underneath tank.
Man lives under river.
People live under sea.
Visit to people of village under lake.
Bell brought from monastery under water.
Lovely garden under water, with marvelous tree.
World at bottom of pond.
World at bottom of well.
Island covered with treasure.
Island covered with gold.
Crystalline island.
Island with rampart of gold and palisade of silver.
Stones of island are jewels.
Island of amber (glass).
Island of pearls.
Island of rare wood.
Island of ebony.
Island of aloes.
Island of camphor.
Fruitful island.
Otherworld island grows foot yearly.
Island rises up in sea.
Island rises up in river.
Island rises once every seven years.
Island appears only at certain times.
Island with extraordinary support.
Island supported on four feet.
Island supported on seven feet.
Otherworld island supported by pedestal.
Wandering island.
Flying island.
Islands of extraordinary color.
Magic invisibility of otherworld island.
Island inhabited by only one species.
Island inhabited only by birds.
Island inhabited only be sheep.
Island surrounded by wall of fire; water prevents it from being consumed.
Island with nightly noise of drums.
No putrefaction on extraordinary island.
Extraordinary island upon which no sinner can die (be buried).
Battle of islands.
Glass mountain.
Mountain of treasure.
Mountain of gold.
Mountain of silver.
Silver not to be taken from mountain of silver on Sabbath.
Mountain formed of a jewel.
Mountain formed of a pearl.
Mountain formed of diamond.
Mountain of fire.
Magnetic mountain.
Living mountain.
Speaking mountain.
Mountain laughs.
Singing mountain.
Flying mountain.
Growing mountain.
Mountain has wife and children.
Moving mountain.
Mountain fights for honor.
Extraordinary valleys and plains.
Valley of fire.
Plain that is earthly paradise.
Extraordinary valley which gives the illusion of earthly paradise.
Fertile valleys created by deity's stamping down mountains.
Plain of wonders.
Glen of witchcraft.
Extraordinary glen: mysterious shouting heard.
Valley full of dreadful monsters.
Perilous glen.
Extraordinary cave.
Golden cave.
Cave of gold, silver and crystal.
Wind continually blows from cave.
Extraordinary mountains and valleys--miscellaneous.
Mountain with marvelous objects at top.
Hollow mountain.
Hill on which snow always melts.
Perfumed mountain.
Mountain of ice.
Mountain of thorns.
Rocky mountain.
Mountain of seven lights.
City of precious metals and stones.
City of gold.
City with hundred palaces and gardens; in one everything is of gold, in another, silver, etc.
City of brass.
City of onyx.
City of jewels.
City of emerald.
City paved with precious seeds.
City paved with seeds of gold.
City paved with seeds of silver.
City paved with seeds of brass.
City of extraordinary color.
Green city.
City of fire.
Underground city.
City inside a tree.
Deserted city.
Inaccessible city.
Heathen city surrounded by a yellow river, furious and impassable.
City protected by red-hot iron floor around it.
City inaccessible to death.
City of extraordinary people.
City of petrified people.
City of enchanted people.
Village of one-legged people.
Other extraordinary cities.
Town where everything is sold at one price.
Cities of sin.
City of elephants.
Extraordinary castle (house, palace).
Castle of unusual material.
Golden castle (palace, house).
Castle paved with gold and gems.
Palace of gold and silver bricks.
Silver castle.
Copper castle.
Steel castle (house).
Palace of jewels.
Diamond castle.
House of sapphire.
House of turquoise.
Underwater castle with walls of gold and diamonds.
Crystal castle.
Castle with glass wall.
Glass house.
Palace of ice.
Castle of wax, shining like gold.
House of skulls.
Gingerbread house.
Castle of fire.
Castle (house) with extraordinary support.
Castle in the air.
Castle suspended on four chains.
Castle carried through air by four eagles.
Castle in tree-top.
Giants uphold castle.
Castle built on sea.
Palace surrounded by rivers of wine, rose-water and honey.
Castle stands on a pillar (pillars).
Revolving castle.
Circular house rotating on cock's claw.
Castle revolving at night so that entrance cannot be found.
Castle on serpents.
Extraordinary location of castle.
Castle at world's end.
Castle east of sun and west of moon.
Most eastern castle in world.
Castle at middle point of earth.
Underground house.
House inside mountain.
Castle rises from the ground.
Palace at bottom of water tank.
Inhabitants of extraordinary castle.
Castle inhabited by ogres.
Cat castle.
Castle (house) infested by demon cats.
Abandoned castle.
Castle in which everyone is asleep.
Castle (house) haunted by demons.
Castle in which inhabitants have been turned to stone.
Castle inhabited by enchanted princess.
Extraordinary guard for castle.
Castle guarded by beasts.
Castle guarded by giants (ogres).
Serpent-hall.
Phantom house: disappears at dawn.
Palace surrounded by rivers of wine, rosewater, and honey.
Castle of extraordinary size.
Road runs through house (banqueting-hall).
Castle shall stand when everything else has departed (Gimle and Brimir).
Seven rooms in ascetic's house: in one, human heads; in another, horses; in third, dogs; in fourth, pots; in fifth, pile of men's arms;
in sixth, a kitchen; in seventh, ascetic lives.
Building at bottom of which flows stream of rubies.
Castle warmed by love.
Extraordinary tower.
Tower of Babel: remarkably tall tower designed to reach sky.
Year taken to mount high tower.
Tower reaches moon.
Metal tower.
Brazen tower.
Towers of steel, silver and gold.
Golden tower under sea.
Tower of glass; melts in sun.
Tower of glass in midst of sea.
Dolorous Tower.
Flying tower.
Remarkable church (chapel, temple).
Green chapel.
Golden temple.
Temple of jewels.
Extraordinary pillars.
Pillars of precious stones.
Crystal column.
Burning pillar reaching heaven.
Pillar of fire.
Musical pillar.
Extraordinary tent.
Extraordinary gate.
Gate as high as heavens and huge as a mountain.
Palace gate so big it can only be opened by twelve buffaloes.
Perilous falling gate.
Palace with seven gates, one within the other.
Extraordinary rooms.
Labyrinth.
Extraordinary number of rooms.
540 rooms in Bilskilnir.
Extraordinary doors and windows.
Windows and doors for every day in year.
One door for each world quarter.
Door of precious stones.
Seven-fold doors to room.
Extraordinary lock and key (made of bones).
Doors of fire.
Revolving door of tent.
Extraordinary carpet.
Giant carpet.
Extraordinary table.
Golden table.
Extraordinary throne.
Solomon's golden throne.
Nimrod's multiple throne.
Throne of fire.
Extraordinary chair.
Chairs of gold and silver.
Extraordinary bed.
Extraordinary bed woven with spider's webs.
Golden bed.
Ivory bed.
Bed made from man's tooth.
Remarkable bier.
Remarkable jeweled bier.
Extraordinary buildings and furnishings--miscellaneous.
Seven forts--river, iron, mud, cow-dung, brick, stone, wood.
Remarkable candlestick.
Jeweled candlestick.
Remarkable curtain.
Jeweled curtain.
Rising and falling sky.
Sky lowers on people.
Artificial heavens.
Artificial heavenly bodies.
Gold moon, sun, star.
Extraordinary cloud.
Clouds take form of letters.
Dragon seen in sky.
Fire from heaven kills people.
Weeping rocks.
Weeping hills.
Growing rocks.
Big rocks grow from little rocks.
Musical rock in fairyland.
Floating rock (stone).
Golden stone.
Magnetic stone.
Lodestone draws ship to it.
Rock of extraordinary color.
Crimson rock.
Extraordinary cliff: thin as a hair, sharp as a blade, slippery as an eel's tail, high as a mast.
Other extraordinary stones.
Stones cannot be counted.
Hollow stone fits any person who lies in it.
Magic crop- and rain-producing stone.
Bleeding rock.
Men disappear at revolving bleeding rock.
Traveling stones.
Stones of fire.
Stones burn.
Mysterious characters engraved upon rock of fire.
Transparent stone.
Stones as guardian of town.
Stones can be rolled up like a scroll.
Extraordinary tree.
Trees of extraordinary material.
Golden tree.
Silver tree.
Copper tree.
Tree of fire.
Tree of camphor.
Glass (crystal) tree in otherworld.
Tree with silver trunk, gold branches, emerald leaves, pearls for fruits.
Diamond tree.
Iron tree.
Tree of cakes.
Tree with extraordinary leaves.
Tree with metal leaves.
Tree with brass leaves.
Tree with golden leaves.
Tree with leaves of jewels.
Tree with gigantic leaves.
Tree with coiling leaves three thousand miles high with golden cock on top.
Tree of extraordinary color.
Purple tree.
White mango tree.
Crimson tree.
Extraordinary location of tree.
Tree in midocean.
Tree under sea.
Tree in the midst of king's hall.
Food-producing trees.
Food-dropping trees.
Wood which distills wine.
Fish-producing tree.
Tree with musical branches.
Tree with extraordinary fruit.
Tree bearing all fruits.
Tree bearing several fruits.
Tree bearing variety of fruits.
Tree bearing unwonted fruit (flowers).
Temple cedars bear fruit.
Marvelous oranges grow upon tree limbs which are sharp knives.
Cherry tree has lotos-flowers.
Tree with fruits like human heads.
Trees with green birds hanging by claws.
Tree in which people live in nests.
Hollow tree as residence for hero.
Trees disappear at sunset.
Trees grow and "ungrow" each day.
Tree blooms and grows ripe fruit nightly.
Extraordinary tree blossoms, bears fruit, matures seeds, seeds sprout and grow, even while one watches.
Giant tree: nuts fall scores of miles away, etc.
Tree so large that it darkens whole world.
Upside-down tree.
Tree bears fruit, flower, and leaf simultaneously.
Tree with extraordinary buds.
Tree with crystal buds.
Tree bears fruit three times yearly.
Tree bears fruit monthly.
Tree grows miraculously fast from seed.
Bleeding tree.
Marvelous tree (trees) of extraordinary age.
Extraordinary firewood, of elephant tusks.
Extraordinary flower-bearing tree in middle of seven forts.
Man-eating tree.
Extraordinary forest.
Forest of straight and tall trees.
Wood of sixty trees nourishing three hundred men apiece.
Forest of Dangers (Wonders).
Speaking forest.
Forest where unseen sword cuts off heads of those trying to escape.
Special flavor of wood from certain forest.
Boards of wood from certain forest endure forever.
Wood which cannot be consumed by fire.
Extraordinary fruits.
Fruits containing jewels.
Golden fruits.
Extraordinarily large fruit.
Fruits always sweet.
Extraordinary apple.
Golden apple.
Silver apple.
Copper apple.
Brass apple.
Extraordinary grapes.
Clusters of diamond and emerald grapes.
Gigantic grapes.
Extraordinary nut.
Golden nut.
Gigantic nut.
Nuts yield purple juice.
Silk handkerchief concealed in a nut.
Silver pear.
Extraordinary gourd.
Gourds with seven rooms in each.
Extraordinary banana.
Banana large as tooth of elephant.
Extraordinary fig.
Fig magically preserved.
Fig from paradise.
Extraordinary pomegranate.
Golden pomegranates.
Giant pomegranate rind holds 13 men.
Extraordinary flower.
Gigantic flower.
Talking flowers.
Flower only to be found at midnight.
Golden flowers.
Golden lotus.
Flower visible only to blind man.
Flowers (lotus) of gold float on a river of milk.
Extraordinary plants.
Vegetables (plants) which mature in miraculously short time.
Extraordinary grain.
Extraordinary amount of liquor pressed from single grain.
Crops grow without sweat or weariness in paradise.
Extraordinary rice producing million-fold and ripening overnight.
Rice, the scent of which is smelled for miles around.
Extraordinary seed.
Prolific grain.
Taro planted in sacred spot inexhaustible prolific.
Extraordinary vine.
Extraordinary vine bears 926 varieties of fruit.
Gigantic vine.
Vines smile when a leaf is cut from them.
Extraordinary vegetables.
Cucumber two feet long.
Enormous kava plant.
Extraordinary grass.
Growing and ungrowing grass.
Grass grows anew every night.
Herbs serve as perfume.
Grass covered with gold dust.
Extraordinary garden.
Marvelous garden with gold and silver flowers, bees.
Five demons keepers of marvelous garden and palace.
Extraordinary dress (clothes, robe, etc.) Dress of extraordinary material.
Golden clothes.
Brass clothes.
Dress of raw fur.
Bearskin.
Cloak made from fur of all animals in realm.
Wooden coat.
Dress of gold, silver, color of sun, moon and stars.
Dress of feathers.
Dress so fine that it goes in nutshell.
Coat so light it can be concealed in closed palms of hand.
Dress with gold, silver, and diamond bells.
Extraordinarily beautiful mantle.
Extraordinary long turban.
Glorified white garments.
Clothes of light (worn by Adam and Eve).
Clothes which do not wear out.
Garments grow with man wearing them.
Garments emitting aromatic perfume.
Clothes remain ever new.
Extraordinary handkerchief.
Handkerchief color of sun, moon, and stars.
Extraordinary shoes.
Golden shoes.
Glass shoes.
Shoes of rat-skin.
Silver shoes.
Extraordinary armor.
Men in air-tight armor.
Extraordinarily painted shield.
Extraordinary ring.
Extraordinary jewels.
Animals with jeweled ornaments.
Ambergris made from bitumen eaten by fish.
Diamond does not break when struck with sledge hammer; penetrates iron instead.
Sapphire so large two tables of law hewn out of it.
Extraordinary ornaments.
Live-bird earrings.
Live head-dress.
Ornaments of snakes, hornets, scorpions, dirt, and a toad.
Necklace made of human eyes.
Golden comb.
Extraordinary bracelets.
Extraordinary crown.
Jeweled crown suspended in air over king's head.
Crown of fire.
Extraordinary clothing and ornaments--miscellaneous.
Rainbow as loincloth.
Girdle made of a climbing-vine.
Extraordinary belt.
Silver weapon.
Extraordinary arrow.
Invisible arrow.
Arrows of fire.
Poisoned arrows.
Arrow shot at bull returns against shooter.
Extraordinarily heavy arrow.
Extraordinary lance.
Barbed lance.
Gae bulga.
Extraordinarily big lance.
Extraordinary sword.
Sword so heavy that hero must take drink of strength before swinging it.
Sword so heavy that only its owner can lift it.
Sword of Damocles.
Sword extraordinarily bright, sharp.
Sword as mirror.
Fiery sword.
Sword shines as fire or as the sun.
Sword cuts everything.
Sword cuts cloth etc. as well as steel and stone.
Sword with poisoned edge.
Sword with image of wolf or serpent.
Gigantic sword.
Disappearing sword.
Sword with God's name engraved upon it.
Miraculous sword of Angel of Death.
Extraordinary spear.
Remarkably hot spear must be kept in bath of blood (poison).
Spear of fire (thrown by God).
Spear so broad that its owner by swinging it puts the light out.
Extraordinary gleaming spear.
All-conquering spear.
Remarkable spear used to dam stream.
Remarkable spear used as a windbreak.
Warrior seeks combat when his spear consents.
Extraordinary club.
Winking club.
Remarkably large club.
Iron club so heavy that five men can hardly lift it.
Club takes 4,000 men to carry it.
Extraordinary bow.
Remarkable bowstring.
Bow of gold, silver, and copper.
Hornbows.
Extraordinarily large bow.
Bow can be strung only by one thousand men.
Tiny bow shoots through muskox hide.
Crossbow goes bird hunting, shows mercy to first bird, which pleads for its life.
Extraordinary battle-axe.
Extraordinarily keen stone axe.
Extraordinary knife.
Extraordinarily sharp knife.
Knife with handle half gold and half silver.
Other extraordinary weapons.
Gnawed bone as weapon.
Extraordinary shield.
Gigantic shield.
Shield concealing one hundred men.
Edge of shield sharp enough to cut hair on water.
Cain slays Abel with bone of a camel.
Cain slain with an apple.
Human head as weapon.
Ball made of human brains as weapon.
Betelnut as weapon to strike off man's head.
Wooden lizard used to kill evil spirits.
Extraordinary boat (ship).
Ship of extraordinary material.
Stone boat (ship).
Bronze boat.
Mahogany ship.
Boat made of nutshells.
Canoe made from coconut.
Ship Naglfar.
Ship brass within, steel without.
Ship with gold nails.
Golden boat with copper rudder.
Silver boat.
Gold ship.
Boat looks like gold.
Boat made of a tree trunk.
Boat from gourd.
Iron boat.
Glass ship.
Extraordinary equipment of ship.
Gold (silver) mast.
Feather used as mast.
Silver oar.
Golden oar.
Bronze sail.
Tin sail.
Marvelous paddle sends canoe enormous distance with each stroke.
Extraordinary ship--miscellaneous.
Winged ship.
Ship on wheels.
Enormous canoe.
Extraordinary bridge.
Extraordinary material of bridge.
Crystal (glass) bridge.
Ice bridge.
Bridge of apples.
Golden bridge.
Bridge of straw.
Extraordinary bridge miscellaneous.
Perilous trap bridge.
Perilous trap-gate.
Bridge which falls when mounted.
Extraordinary span of bridge.
Bridge of boats across sea.
Under-water bridge.
Under-water causeway (to otherworld).
Extraordinary rope.
Rope made of person's hair.
Extraordinary nail.
Extraordinary bed.
Perilous bed.
Golden bed.
Extraordinary web (of guts).
Extraordinary ladder (stair).
Girl's long hair as ladder into tower.
Ladder of fingers (toes).
Ladder of bones.
Ladder of fire.
Staircase of glass.
Extraordinary food.
Extraordinary coffin.
Glass coffin.
Series of glass coffins.
Golden coffin.
Silver coffin.
Series of enclosed coffins.
Extraordinary image.
Image with pointing finger.
Statues animated by water or wind.
Gold (silver) statue of animal.
Peacocks of gold.
Dogs of gold and silver.
Golden dove.
Image takes thousand men to carry it.
Extraordinary loom.
Loom made of woman's breasts with vagina as shuttle.
Extraordinary broom (besom).
Golden besom (broom).
Golden plow.
Extraordinary wagon (cart, carriage, etc.) Golden wagon (chariot).
Golden wagon drawn by moles.
Golden wagon drawn by four golden elephants.
Winged chariot.
Flying carts.
Scythed chariot.
Wagon of jewels.
Cart of lapis lazuli and gold with golden wheels.
Carriage from extraordinary material.
Carriage made from turnip.
Wagon made from nutshell, drawn by duck.
Carriage from pumpkin.
Chariots of fire.
Extraordinary horseshoe.
Golden horseshoe.
Extraordinary chain.
Unbreakable chain.
Chains of fire.
Extraordinary fetter.
Fetter for Fenris wolf.
Fetter for Loki.
Extraordinary pavement.
Pavement of pearl.
Extraordinary cup.
Cup of three hundred colors.
Gigantic cup.
Gigantic drinking horn.
Golden cup.
Golden drinking horn.
Cup made of skulls.
Cup of Gam's egg shell.
Extraordinarily costly drinking horn.
Extraordinary container used for fluids.
Hood holds wine as drinking horn.
Saint able to carry fluid (water, wine, or oil) in broken container, bottomless jar, etc.
Boy Jesus carries water in his cloak when water bottle is broken.
Extraordinary reel.
Golden reel.
Extraordinary saddle.
Golden saddle.
Sampo.
Extraordinary bath.
Bath of milk.
Bath of boiling oil.
Bath of blood.
Bath of blood of dragons, lions, adders, etc.
Bath of marrow.
Bath of molten lead (iron).
Bath of fire.
Bath which makes one insensible for three days.
Bath of balsam.
Extraordinary army.
Battle rage.
Troops of black, white, and red soldiers.
Enormous army camp.
Horse's head for extraordinary use.
Horse's head nailed over gate (door).
Horse's forehead as golden chair.
Horse's skull used as pillow.
Iron bands around heart to keep it from breaking.
Golden spinning-wheel.
Extraordinary threads.
Gold (silver, copper) thread.
Egg used as shinny ball.
Extraordinary vessel.
Extraordinarily large vessel.
Gigantic cauldron.
Gigantic ladle.
Vessel of human bones.
Extraordinary fire.
Extraordinary funeral pyre.
Multicolored fires.
Extraordinary writings (book, letter).
Extraordinary book.
Book of glass.
Book written with black fire on white fire (in God's lap).
Words of Decalogue legible on both sides.
Books unscathed by water and fire.
Book made of sapphires.
Heavenly books.
Extraordinary letter (written on human skin).
Letter shot into sky.
Extraordinary field.
Extraordinary key.
Golden key.
Extraordinary implements.
Extraordinary plow (made of snakes and drawn by tigers).
Extraordinary still (with the beads of crocodiles, owls, and parrots as pots).
Woman's body used as still.
Extraordinary hearth.
Extraordinary seat, covered with skins of lice.
Golden swing.
Extraordinary threshing-floor.
Other extraordinary objects.
Extraordinary standard.
Extraordinary game-board.
Golden game-board.
Enormous cage.
Miracles at certain times.
Wonders occur on Hallowe'en.
Miracles on first night of Passover.
All miracles created by God at creation.
Miracles cease.
Miracles in the desert come to an end with death of Miriam, Aaron and Moses.
Repeated death.
Extraordinary threefold death: falling from rock and tree, drowning.
Extraordinary threefold death: wounding, burning, drowning.
Extraordinary twofold death: burning, drowning.
Person (animal) swallowed without killing.
Men swallow men.
God swallows his wife and incorporates her into his own being.
Animals swallow animals.
Raven dwells inside a whale.
Animal swallows man (not fatally).
Thumbling swallowed by animals.
Winged serpent as boat: passengers within.
Animal with men in its belly playing cards, etc.
Frog eats a rat, a baker, a man, and a horse.
Jonah.
Fish swallows ship.
Party in canoe swallowed by great clam.
Serpent swallows canoe and occupant.
Giant swallows man.
Man builds boat and sails about in giant's belly.
All-swallowing monster.
Toad (as man) swallows all women's earthenware.
Serpent swallows man.
Victim kills swallower from within.
Victim kills swallower from within by burning.
Victim kills swallower from within by cutting.
Swallowed person eats on swallower's liver (heart) until disgorged.
Swallowed person tickles serpent's throat and is disgorged.
Victims rescued from swallower's belly.
Smith swallowed by water-monster and rescued by saint.
Deity lights a great fire, and all the children ogress has devoured come out of it.
Person swallowed and disgorged.
Princess stands in middle of dried-up tank so serpent will release the water, which he had swallowed up completely.
Buffalo sucks hero with water it is drinking and throws him up again in game of hide-and-seek.
Tigress swallows abandoned baby again and again, but it comes out from behind.
Victim speaks from swallower's body.
Victim pecks on swallower's stomach.
One animal jumps through body of another.
Monkey jumps through body of tiger.
Whelp leaps through body of hound.
Monster swallows people through anus.
Swallowed person becomes bald.
Swallowed person becomes boneless.
Swallowed person bereft of clothing.
Tent-house folded and swallowed as means of carrying it.
Extraordinary swallowings--miscellaneous.
Elephant allows jackal to quench his thirst by entering through his mouth to his stomach.
Man swallows reptiles.
Person unwittingly swallows snake, which kills him.
Book dropped in water by saint not wet.
Dashing sea does not touch saint's cowl.
Robe sent to saint on stream not wet.
Waters rise to drown wrongdoer.
Water sinks to bottom, mud rises to surface to keep prophet from drowning.
Waters transformed to blood for Egyptians but not for Hebrews.
Water stops flowing when no longer needed.
Water chants song.
Waters dissolve mill-stones.
Chewed nut spread on waters clarifies them.
Extraordinary occurrence connected with sea.
Sea rises and changes place.
Sea rises at saint's command.
Fish disappear from sea.
Sea does not encroach on burial place of saint.
Sea behaves like solid earth when man is buried in it.
Extraordinary behavior of waves.
Waves reverberate at preparation for battle.
Waves moan (shriek) during battle.
Extraordinary shipwreck in calm weather.
Fishing under sea.
Sea changes color.
Sea fettered.
Passing through sea unscathed.
Waters of sea arch over people like a vault.
Sea yields people whatever they desire.
Sea flows sweet water.
Sea bears fruits.
Paths open up in sea for each tribe (one for each of Israel's tribes).
Sea piles up to height of sixteen hundred miles.
Speaking sea.
Seas sing hymns of praise.
Extraordinary occurrences connected with rivers.
River pursues fugitive.
River arches over saint's body like a vault.
Stream becomes hot in which saint performs his ascetic devotions.
Well of oil runs into river.
River acts as messenger.
River carries object to saint.
River ceases to flow.
River dries up for a day.
River dries up its waters out of sympathy.
In dead of night waters of stream cease flowing and stand perfectly still.
River boils.
River boils when ashes of hearts are cast into it.
River rises and overflows.
River rises to prevent body's being carried over it against dying man's wish.
River rises to prevent advance of army.
River rises to prevent meeting of hostile armies.
River rises to prevent escape of thieves.
Treacherous river overflows and drowns victims.
Shallow river rushes up to drown man.
River piles up to a height of three hundred miles.
Ford across impassable river created by saint.
River divides into two parts after rape in its bed.
Firelike waters of river used by strange beings to cook flesh.
Speaking river (brook).
Extraordinary occurrences connected with springs.
Miraculous spring bursts forth for holy person.
Spring bursts forth where saint spills water from his bell.
Magic spring flows from roots of tree at command of Jesus.
Well rises so holy person does not have to draw from it.
Well rises so maiden can draw without exerting herself.
Well rises for pious man's sheep.
Dry spring restored by removal of certain stone.
At certain time sheep thrown into well become crimson.
Severed head of impious man in well causes water to become bitter during part of each day.
Rushes uprooted reveal spring.
Spring miraculously breaks forth against wrongdoer.
Desecrated well overflows.
Well floods when gazed upon until mass is said over it.
Bones of bird constantly thrown up from well.
Extraordinary occurrences connected with lakes.
Gravel rises from bottom as hero enters lake.
Lake rises from bramble bush.
Lake petrifies wood.
Lake disappears.
When dead man's body is thrown into lake, water turns pitch black and all living creatures therein die.
Extraordinary occurrences connected with pond (pool, tank).
Huge tank has no water in spite of plentiful rains.
Ice forms while fish leaps from pool.
Building sinks into earth.
Castle sinks into earth.
Church sinks underground.
Church sinks: song heard from underground.
Church and congregation sink to bottom of sea.
Temple swallowed by earth.
Tower sinks into earth.
Unfinished Tower of Babel sinks into earth.
Man sinks into earth.
Ground opens and swallows up person.
Ground opens to hide fugitive.
Ground cut from under adversary.
Adversary pushed into ground.
Earth opens at man's command.
Earth opens at woman's bidding to enclose her.
Sinking into mud in duel.
Man sinks into stone.
City sinks in the sea.
City sinks in sea or lake as punishment.
Ancient homeland sinks beneath the waves.
Island sinks into sea.
Earth splits and plain sinks to become bottom of lake when tabu is broken.
Person gradually submerged by sea.
Ground opens and swallows forest.
Object sinks into earth.
Ground opens and swallows heathen idols.
Earth swallows up Temple vessels.
Ground opens and swallows other object.
Magic object sinks into earth.
Extraordinary sword sinks into earth after use.
City is buried under sand.
Extraordinary underground (underwater) disappearance--miscellaneous.
Animal sinks into earth.
Ground opens and swallows demoniac wasps.
Man falls underground through hole.
Sickness cured by napkin of Veronica.
Extreme anger as cure for sickness.
Wife cures self of catarrh by calling to husband fondling maid at bedside.
Measuring sick as means of cure.
Sickness (madness) cured by coition.
Extreme fear as cure for sickness.
Sucking through tubes heals wounds.
Marvelous cure without seeing person.
Princess cured by seeing her lost lover dance.
Healing by sprinkling water and replacing flesh.
Blindness miraculously cured.
Sight miraculously restored while poet writes hymn (poem).
Blinded prince forces goddess to give him back his sight.
Blindness cured by tears.
Blindness healed by sun's rays.
Blindness cured by rubbing sand on eyes.
Blindness cured by striking eyes.
Blindness cured by striking eyes with shell.
Blindness cured by rubbing eyes with flower.
Blindness cured by striking head violently on tree.
Blindness cured by application of chicken dung.
Blindness cured by drop of water from side of crucified Saviour.
Eyes restored by bathing in lake (spring).
Cripple marvelously cured.
Hunchback cured by having hump severely beaten.
Dumb person brought to speak.
Thread under dumb man's tongue cut.
Dumbness cured by question.
Dumb princess is brought to speech by tale ending with a question to be solved.
Dumbness cured by saint's question.
Fainting brings recovery of speech.
Chilli plant so hot it causes dumb man to speak: thus discovered for eating.
Flea (magic) enters princess' throat and helps hero make her speak.
Person made to speak by warning of danger.
Miraculous cure for leprosy.
Blood-bath as cure for leprosy.
Extraordinary diagnosis.
Detailed diagnosis by feeling pulse.
Illegitimacy of child discovered by urinalysis.
Diagnosis based on smoke rising from house of sick.
Physician, by examining wound can tell whether it was inflicted by a man or a woman and describe him or her in detail.
Cure by physician's imitating sick man's actions.
Mountebank undertakes to bring the city's incurables back to health.
Marvelous cures--miscellaneous.
Madness miraculously cured.
Senses regained when person speaks his name.
Cross-eyes straighted when hero sets head of slain opponent upon his own.
Deformity cured by waves of sea.
Miraculous cure of wound.
Dreadful wound healed.
Gaping wound closed with slab of wood.
Wounds healed by bath of marrow.
Weapon (missile) miraculously removed.
Saint's palm over wound causes spearhead to come forth.
Fat of crow as remedy for king's wounds.
Paunch opened and fat taken out to cure stomach.
Cure for deadly snake bite.
Marvelous cure for poison.
Enemy cured by poisoned cake he has sent to holy man in order to destroy him.
Immunity to poison by eating poisons.
Extraordinary nature phenomena at birth of holy person (hero).
Extraordinary nature phenomena at birth of royalty.
Thunder report at birth of king.
Shower of gold and silver rains upon king's ship at birth of his children.
Storm signs betray newly born child's chiefly rank.
Extraordinary nature phenomena at birth of hero.
Extraordinary precipitation at birth of hero.
Shower of lotuses at birth of hero.
Exhibition of lights at saint's birth.
Bells ring without human hands when a saint is born.
Extraordinary nature phenomena at rebirth: nine worlds tremble.
When girl (princess) is born, earth is filled with light.
Extraordinary nature phenomena at death of holy person (hero).
Nature fruitless after death of hero.
Rainbow stretches from monastery to heaven at saint's death.
Rock bursts into flames at hero's death.
Great light appears on night of holy man's death.
Earthquake at death of important person.
Earthquake when good man is murdered.
Earthquake at witch's death.
Earthquake at dragon's death.
Winter's day changes to summer's day at saint's funeral.
Sun shines but two hours the day of hero's funeral.
Extraordinary nature phenomena during furious battle.
Nature's lament at the Temple's destruction.
Extraordinary nature phenomena at anger of saint.
Extraordinary nature phenomena at prisoner's miraculous release.
Extraordinary nature phenomena on night of fratricide.
Extraordinary nature phenomena at cruel treatment of innocent person.
Extraordinary nature phenomena at moving of saint's remains.
Earthquake announces victorious return of hero after long absence.
Extraordinary natural phenomena at giving of Tora at Mount Sinai.
Extraordinary behavior of heavenly bodies.
Several suns or moons appearing in sky simultaneously.
Eclipse of sun and moon in God's proximity.
Heavenly bodies lament.
Sun, moon, and stars do not shine seven days, mourning Adam's death.
God's praise chanted by the heavenly bodies.
Heavenly bodies bear witness for and against man.
Heavens bleed.
Extraordinary behavior of sun.
Sun refuses to shine when murder is done.
Sun travels from west to east.
Sun returns to sunrise to help sick man.
Several suns in sky.
Two suns shine in sky.
Three suns shine in sky.
Sun warns man of approaching assassin.
Sun shines during night.
Sun shines for twelve days and nights after death of holy person.
Sun reappears after being set.
Sun does not set.
Sunset delayed many hours.
Sun does not shine on island of druidry.
Sun turned from one hour to another through the prayer of saint (Moses).
Sun appears color of blood.
Eclipse of sun at important historical events.
Sun sets early to hide fugitive.
Extraordinary behavior of stars.
Bright star indicates birth of holy person.
Hairy star.
Star shines in day.
Stars and planets speak.
Speaking star.
Constellations bewail man's death.
Fighting stars melt iron chariots.
Star swallows four other stars.
Star moves from west to east.
Stars drop on grave during conjuration.
Extraordinary behavior of moon.
Moon turns to blood.
Many moons at the same time.
Moon warns sleeping man of approaching assassin.
Extraordinary precipitation (rain, snow, etc.) Gifts are obtained or fall from heaven: flowers (roses),
crown of gold, blossoms or thorns, bells, gems, books, sword, etc.
Storm overturns idol.
Electric storm breaks island into three parts.
Fire from heaven.
Sacrifice consumed by heavenly fire.
Pillar of fire reaches from heaven to earth.
Fire from heaven cannot be quenched by water.
Fire from heaven burns and freezes.
Extraordinary hot rain.
Star drops from heaven: is money.
Shower of blood.
Shower of blood for three days and three nights.
Dew of blood from fingers of repentant woman.
Extraordinary hailstones.
Storm of gigantic hailstones.
Hailstones, each as large as a crabapple.
Rain of fiery hailstones.
Triangular hailstones.
Shower of food.
Shower of wheat.
Shower of manna.
Shower of honey.
Shower of oil.
Extraordinary dew.
Sweet dew.
Other extraordinary showers.
Shower of silver (money).
Rain of jewels.
Icicles gathered by saint as firewood burn.
Extraordinary mist (darkness).
Mist settles over lake after fight with serpent.
Extraordinary snow.
Snow has taste of wine.
Holy object falls from heaven.
Crozier falls from heaven for saint.
Altar cloths descend from heaven.
Marvelous picture falls from sky in storm.
Written scroll (letter) received from heaven.
Mysterious leaf falls on church altar.
Raindrops as large as man's hand.
Extraordinary behavior of wind.
Wind serves Solomon as horse and carries him everywhere.
Extraordinary wind blows arrows shot against Christians back against enemy.
Extraordinary wind bursts open locked doors of church to show that dead pope is worthy of burial there.
Wind carries ogre to his castle.
Extraordinary behavior of fire.
Pillar of fire (in sky).
Fire bends bough to shape of crozier.
Fire spares saint's tunic, though wearer is burned.
Fire from extraordinary fuel.
Extraordinary lamps burn with urine.
Extraordinary blood catches fire.
Extraordinary corpse burns of its own accord.
Extraordinary stone catches fire.
Blazing stick continues to burn even in water.
Indra's tank blazes like gold.
Premature darkness.
Darkness comes in daytime in order to save life of maiden about to be executed.
Premature darkness at time of execution of innocent people.
Sun darkened at death of holy person.
Sun does not rise at death of hero.
Impenetrable darkness.
Extraordinary darkness not dispelled by artificial means.
Voices from heaven (or from the air).
Extraordinary behavior of clouds.
Clouds protect fugitives.
Clouds with fragrance from paradise.
Conversation between clouds.
Thin cloud in form of rainbow.
Extraordinary thunder and lightning.
Electric storm kills a thousand.
Extraordinary nature phenomena--miscellaneous.
Skies open, revealing heavenly company.
Earth rises.
Marvelous light.
Marvelous light reveals man hiding from saint.
Hero's light: appears around head of hero aroused to extraordinary feats of valor.
Extraordinary earthquake.
Rumble in earth attends slaying of giant serpent.
Fight with monster child causes earth to rock like waves of the sea.
Cultivated places suddenly become desert.
Sandhill grows around lover keeping watch till it covers all but his head.
Famine.
Miraculous blossoming and bearing of fruit.
Dry rod blossoms.
Dry rod blossoms on night of saint's birth.
Witch's horse-switch blossoms.
Moss grows on staff overnight.
Rose grows from table (stone).
Thorn growing in wound becomes tree.
Fruitless tree bears fruit.
Ash (alder, willow, etc.
Flowers bloom in winter.
Fruit produced out of season at saint's request.
Apples at Christmas.
Tree blossoms at midnight on Twelfth Night.
Flowers spring up when saint strikes ground.
Sowing and reaping same day.
Trees put forth leaves on arrival of God in paradise.
Creeper which blossoms once only in a thousand years.
Plants and trees miraculously unbent.
Trees unbent.
Walking on grass-blades without bending them.
Grass refuses to grow in certain spot.
Grass will not grow where blood of murdered person has been shed.
Garden becomes wilderness.
Garden becomes wilderness because of owner's wickedness.
After persecuted queen has been driven away from palace, trees do not bear fruits, flowers cease to bloom, and birds do not sing.
Extraordinary behavior of trees and plants--miscellaneous.
Sour fruits made sweet by saint.
Leaves of tree open and close to give saint passage.
Leaves of tree make melody for saints.
Tree seizes person and lifts him up.
Bough miraculously does not burn.
Unconsumed burning bush.
Tree grows through handle of saint's bell.
Hollow in tree grows over, giving sanctuary to relics within.
Forest springs up from twig (twigs).
Flowers pressed yield wine.
Flower from otherworld (Land of Promise) miraculously appears to persons (saints).
Trees spring up to commemorate birth of primitive hero (demigod, deity).
Trees spring up from blood spilled on ground.
Convention of trees.
Grub's urine waters tree.
Tree sheds all its leaves out of sympathy.
Magic tree will allow person to take only two of its fruits.
Plants grow without being sown.
Grass grows anew every night.
Extraordinary tree supports pious man and his family.
Tree's branches turn upward when idolators rest beneath it.
Tree which has two singing blossoms.
Tree acts as master of ceremonies while gods drink.
Trees wither when tragic things happen.
Extraordinary death of animal.
Serpent bursts asunder.
Animal bursts from anger.
Bull melts away after evil spirit has issued from him.
Animals killed by trickster's breaking wind.
Fiery bolt from heaven kills devastating animal.
Ashes thrown into stream dissolve animals.
Animal dies of broken heart.
Animal's broken heart disgorged.
King of cats killed by glowing mass of iron thrown by saint.
Giant magic boar slain by tearing out entrails from behind.
Animals carry extraordinary burden.
Eagles carry castle in air.
Great flock of birds lift grayhound and garments into air.
Four cats carry coffin.
Hawk carries hand of man to saint displeased by handclasp.
Bird brings flower from foreign land.
Crocodile carries extraordinary burden.
Toad carries seven stone mortars on his head.
Toad carries tree on back.
Crab carries in his ear cat, tiger, bamboos, river.
Extraordinary growth of animal.
Extraordinary quick growth of animal.
Snail grows and fills house entirely.
Louse fattened.
Cat grows as large as a cow in a minute.
Extraordinary growth of ox horns.
Extraordinary protection for animal.
Horse sewed in buffalo-hides.
Animals change color.
Black sheep turn white.
Extraordinary occurrences concerning fishing.
Clerics catch fish with regularity.
Salmon caught out of season for saint.
Salmon comes every seventh year to certain place.
Stranded fish do not decay for a year.
Shores flooded with sea-fish.
Animal controls sex of offspring.
Bird controls sex and appearance of offspring.
Extraordinary limbs of animals.
Ox's leg acts as person.
Hoofs of horses drop from their feet because of heat.
Apertures of animals' bodies closed up in certain land.
Extraordinary occurrences concerning animals--miscellaneous.
Horse jumps over high wall.
Horse's tremendous leap.
Bird's red eye cooks meat.
Cuckoo-clock.
Man rides on back of fleeing wild boar.
Sheep never harmed by wild beasts.
Sheep kill wolves.
One bull, one cow survive plague.
Swine kick trees to cause fruit to fall.
Mother-love induced in animal.
Milk from saint's cows forms lake.
Animals distribute parts of man's body in accordance with prophecy.
Animal as mighty drinker.
Cow lowers ocean by drinking.
Sea animal found inland.
Animal dives into lake and disappears.
Birds hover over battlefield.
Hunt for extraordinary (magic) animal.
Extraordinary swarms of birds.
Swarms of quails serve as food for Israelites.
Swarms of birds darken sun and moon.
Marvelously swift horse.
Boar hung in spider's web.
Cock with enormous silver ears.
Egg becomes crowing cock.
Spider spins web across sky.
Animals eat extraordinary food.
Fowls eat gold and silver.
Tiger lives on self-cooking food.
Pig swallows necklace.
Animals live on pearls.
Frog pierces hardest metals and marbles.
Frogs cast themselves into oven-flames and devour bread.
Object bleeds.
Bleeding lance.
Bleeding knife.
Bleeding bone.
Dry bone smells as sign of forgiveness.
Bleeding cake.
Bleeding loaf of bread.
Shrine bleeds.
Desecrated altar bleeds.
Bleeding rock.
Plant shrieks when uprooted.
Mandrake shrieks when uprooted.
Sunken bell sounds.
Sunken bell sounds at certain times.
Object expresses sorrow.
Books show sorrow for owner's death by falling from shelf.
Chariots, stones, weapons join in keen at hero's death.
Shield shrieks in battle.
Waters react to words of poet.
Sword pierces rock when possessor will break it.
Sword is spoken to as to human being.
Combat with horse's sex organ.
Extraordinary heads act as living objects.
Substituted silver hand used as if it were of flesh and blood.
Cooked food grows when planted.
Cake, planted in the field, grows and after a time bears cakes.
Extraordinary activity of mountains.
Mountain moves so that its rocks enter into caves of other mountain.
Mountain moves to person.
Mountain trembles.
Inanimate object acts as if living.
Doorpost of room rises for holy person.
Gate swallows axes trying to force it open.
Altar shakes when unworthy man is elected.
Twelve stones unite to become one.
Sunbeam as support.
Clothes hung on sunbeam.
Gospel-book hung from saint's shoulders without strap.
Sitting (hanging) on a sunbeam.
Dice game that lasts for nine years.
Extraordinary occurrences connected with shoes.
Shoes miraculously worn out.
The danced-out shoes.
Woman has worn out carriage-load of shoes with walking.
Wearing shoes only when crossing river.
Bill of sale written on man's sandal.
Man carries extraordinary luggage.
Man puts his horse in his sleeve when he does not need it.
Man washes clothes blindfolded.
Extraordinary flights through air.
Flight on artificial wings.
Extraordinary effect of high flight.
Flight so high that sun melts glue of artificial wings.
Flight so high that eyelids drop from cold.
Man learns to fly.
Man kicked so hard that he flies through the air and is never seen again.
Extraordinary descent into ocean.
Descent into ocean in glass box.
Creation of a person by cooperation of skillful men.
Objects go journeying together.
Bean, straw, and coal go journeying.
Turtle's war-party.
Eggplant, needle, and cowdung go on warpath.
Ship wrapped with feather-beds and canvass and pitched (so as to save it).
Person walks unceasingly for year.
Person wanders unceasingly for hundred and fifty years.
Person lives without food or drink for a year (or more).
Person lives on water (from holy well) for a year.
Person concealed in another's body.
Husband concealed in wife's ear.
Magician carries mistress with him in his body.
Ascetic carries woman in his hair, but she has two lovers in her cloak and outwits him.
Person's thigh as hiding place.
Man hides sister in wound in his thigh to protect her.
Bottle concealed in person's thigh.
Garment hidden in hole cut in thigh.
Jewell hidden in wound cut in thigh.
Person's armpit as hiding place.
Other parts of person's body as hiding place.
Key to house concealed in man's heart.
Disintegration: man eats himself up or dismembers himself.
Hand from heaven writes on wall.
Object thrown from heaven.
Footstool thrown from heaven.
Person without shadow.
Man attends devil's school to learn witchcraft, has no shadow afterward.
Man has witch aid him in reaping contest, the devil to get the hindmost.
Extraordinary physical reactions of persons.
Neophyte shows no reaction when saint's staff pierces his foot.
Extraordinary death.
Death from broken heart.
Heart breaks at third drink from silver canister.
Heart breaks when girl hears lover kiss another.
Heart breaks from sorrow.
Hearts break when lovers are told beloved is dead.
Death from grief for death of lover or relative.
Lover dies beside dying sweetheart.
Woman dies on hearing of her husband's death.
Woman swoons and is near death at hearing of husband's or lover's death.
First woman in Ireland to die of grief for the death of her husband.
Death from hearing of wife's death.
Death from hearing of son's (sons') death.
Death from sorrow or chagrin.
Maiden who has been falsely accused apparently dies of sorrow.
Servant grieves over master's death.
Woman dies on having secret love exposed.
Priest dies from having been duped into deceptive bargain.
Man dies on learning of wife's adultery.
Heart breaks when girl learns men are slain in battle on her account.
Woman dies of broken heart on learning that her former husband is still alive.
Man dies from grieving over mother's death.
Death from excitement at news of Christ's crucifixion.
Death from chagrin.
Guilty persons being confronted with their crimes become "insensate like trees."
Death from longing.
Death from excessive joy.
Bridegroom dies from joy.
Stranger dies from joy on being rewarded by ruler.
Mother dies from joy on greeting long-absent son.
Death from joy of kiss.
Death from sight of beautiful woman.
Fainting away at sight of goddess.
Man dies when he learns storm is magic.
Death on beholding hell.
Death from jealousy.
Death (illness) from envy.
Death from fear.
Suicide from fear of starving.
Death from fear of demons.
Suicide from fright of evil prophecy.
Man dies from frog's bite, thinking it snakebite.
Death from horror.
Death from shame.
Girl dies of shame at being seen naked.
Woman dies of shame at seeing naked man (husband).
Horripilation.
Person goes blind from overweeping.
Person melts away from heat.
Poison of hydra corrodes the skin.
Buttons burst as consequence of violent emotion.
Necklace bursts as consequence of violent emotion.
Hair turns gray from terror.
Extraordinary madness.
Madness from seeing beautiful woman.
Madness from sight of magically beautiful man.
Madness from grief.
Madness from seeing ugly ogre.
Madness from thirst.
Madness from overeating.
Men go mad in battle.
Mad warriors fly up into clouds.
Madness from hearing prophetic voice from air.
Madness from regret that knight has forsaken his wife.
Madness (rage) from hearing about brother's death.
Madness from loss of fortune.
Extraordinary illness.
Going to bed for sorrow.
Man keeps to his bed, mourning over drowned son.
King keeps to his bed, mourning over vanished bride.
Woman keeps to her bed on announcement of lover's death.
Illness from keeping a secret.
Huge boil appears on forehead of youth keeping a secret.
Illness from shame of enemies' scorn.
Man sweats blood and absorbs hair into head on exertion of strength.
Laughing and crying at the same time (sundry reasons given).
Laughter from chagrin.
Man turns pale, red, blue, etc. from emotion or strain.
Man perspires in winter while relating fearful vision.
Biting fingers to see if one is dreaming.
Beheaded man swims.
Inordinate longing.
Extraordinary physical reaction to anger.
Man spits fire when enraged.
One eye recedes, other protrudes when angered.
Man fells wood with sword (dies) when he hears of Crucifixion.
Strength from anger enables man to break binding chain.
Strength from anger causes man to break stone.
Strength from anger enables man to tear opponent to bits.
Heat of saint's anger sets cowl afire.
Extraordinary bodily contortion as result of warrior's anger.
Extraordinary physical reactions of angry warriors in battle.
Fury in battle causes stream of blood to rise from warrior's head.
Fury in battle causes warrior to increase in size.
Fiery columns rise in front of angry warrior.
Face of angry warrior lights up with flame.
Angry warrior becomes red and purple.
Water boils when angry warrior is immersed in it.
Fury enables wounded soldiers to continue fighting.
Angry warrior's breath makes adversary's armour so hot that he must surrender.
Bowstring (arrow, oar) breaks at angry warrior's grasp.
King about to kill foster-son due to his evil explanation of dream; both jump into sea and are drowned.
Face and body turn black from anger.
Chief beheads sentinel who does not recognize him.
Man throws cereal and spoon on the floor because he is supposed to eat together with his brother.
Earl throws jar of water after undesired messenger.
Extraordinary result of fear.
Barrenness as result of fright.
Putrescence flows from head when man presses forehead.
Dumbness from disgust.
Person vomits iron.
Reactions to excessive grief.
Illness from excessive grief.
Tears of blood from excessive grief.
Man swells from excessive grief.
Refusal to eat from excessive grief.
Refusal to speak because of grief.
Man cries at hearing of friend's death.
Man senseless from grief at hearing of father's death; one doesn't feel that he cuts himself with his knife, the other presses dice so
that he bleeds.
Tearing hair and clothes from excessive grief.
Wounding self because of excessive grief.
Bird in great grief tears out feathers.
Swooning from grief.
Deaf and dumb people speak.
Shame causes smoke to rise from saint's head and sweat to stream from his brow.
Slap turns man's face completely around.
Man suddenly acquires long gray beard on scaffold at execution.
Night spent in tree.
Anchor floats on water.
Non-buoyant flasks float.
Prodigious weeping.
Barrel filled miraculously with penitent's tears.
Miraculously loud noise of mourning for hero.
Bones temporarily removed from body by tree climbers to avoid breaking them.
Books in church read without man's tongue.
Hero (giant) wades across sea.
Flame as miraculous index.
Flame indicates presence of beautiful woman.
Color of flame indicates what is burning.
Burning pit will close only if armed rider will plunge into it.
Flame indicates place where innocent person was murdered.
Departing house.
Man fishes up two blind women from a well.
Arrow shot to heaven returns bloody.
Knife plunged into earth comes out bloody.
Realistic dream.
Tokens from a dream.
Wound received in dream.
Man is maltreated in dream so that he feels it next day.
Fight in dream with real result.
Prodigious jump.
Crossing a river with help of a fig tree whose branches touch the opposite bank.
Jumping over a ditch which is really an ocean.
Man clears river of enormous width in one leap.
Two children of different sex, not related, have such close resemblance that even parents cannot tell them apart.
Marathon marriage.
Blood of brother and sister (and smoke from their funeral pyres) refuses to mingle.
Tightening belt to counteract hunger: when loosened person falls dead.
Detonation from spark struck for fire hurls ships out to sea.
Tub of water dropped neither breaks nor spills.
Person changes color.
Person has red and black countenance after being burned.
Object rises into the air.
Object floats in air.
Altar floats in air.
Ark suspended in air.
Jerusalem suspended in air.
Stone cross rises into air.
Man and his camels rise into air.
Furious battle.
Inlay melts from sword with heat of striking.
Weapons confined by flying nets of hair in furious battle.
Continuous fighting.
Marks of furious battle left in rock.
Deep streams of blood flow during battle.
Warriors use teeth after they exhaust weapons.
Soldiers fight so closely river is forced from bed.
Eye bursts forth from overstrain of voice.
Saint preaches for three days and three nights.
Hero's marvelous sword falls and cuts off hand of enemy.
Extraordinary escapes.
Hero (heroine) spared for his (her) beauty.
Hero unharmed by serpent which coils around his waist.
Extraordinary escape from drowning.
Clerics and property cast safely on shore when enemies attempt their drowning.
Fisherman dragged through sea by seal escapes.
Animal escapes by slipping out of skin.
Food does not spoil saint's clothing.
Vessel of poisoned ale inverted; only poison flows out.
Stake miraculously bent during night.
Milk has taste of wine and honey.
Arm grows longer from giving alms.
Person lives on after being cut through by sword.
Person lives on after having heart cut free.
Person lives on with intestines exposed.
Severed head bites earth.
Armies miraculously separated (kept from coming to battle, etc.
Angel forbids armies to approach each other.
Object miraculously mended.
Object miraculously broken.
Additional marvels.
Entire household dies on same night.
Roads miraculously appear on Hallowe'en.
Roads miraculously appear on day of hero's birth.
Words heard though only thought and not uttered.
Corn takes root in man's hair.
Blades of corn grow through hair of saint as reward for guarding cornkiln.
Burning bodies vomit.
Extraordinary plowing.
Extraordinary plowing by teeth.
Pious die on their birthday.
Man meets his future descendants and is instructed by them.
Kinds of cannibals.
Cannibalistic god.
As result of fraud, Saturn swallows stone instead of infant Jove.
Father of goddess as cannibal.
Cannibal dwarfs.
Cannibal giant.
Giant devours any person who fails to do his bidding.
Cannibal witch.
Negro cannibal.
Water cannibal.
Man-eating woman.
Female ogre changes men into tigers and eats women.
Woman who marries tiger is fed human nails regularly.
Old woman calls beasts together to join her in feast on human flesh.
Woman devours her husband.
Cannibalistic king.
Cannibal meteor.
Stars as cannibals.
Ogre schoolmaster.
Cannibalistic spirits.
Cannibalistic spirits in upper world.
Cannibal with extraordinary features.
Albino twins with cannibal appetite.
Hairless cannibal.
Cannibal with winnowing tray and pestle.
Gambling cannibal.
Jungle-man as cannibal.
Cannibal demon.
Army of cannibal monsters.
Seven-mouthed cannibal ogre.
Cannibal tribe.
Cannibal people driven from land.
Transformation in order to eat own kind.
Spiritual exaltation from eating human flesh.
Ritual cannibalism: corpse of hero (demigod) eaten to acquire his strength.
Ogre eats beautiful girl hoping to have her beauty.
Human being devoured daily.
Giant eats men on New Year's Day.
Ogre seduces sleeping girl in order to devour her.
Haunts of cannibals.
Cannibals live at cemetery.
Devil as husband eats corpses.
Female eater of corpses.
People who eat their parents when they die, saying: they carried us in their bodies when we were born; now we shall do the same for
them.
Abandoned infant lives by eating corpse of murdered father.
Moon made to eat wife's corpse by mother-in-law.
Children flee from father who turns cannibal.
Child born as cannibal.
Cannibal disenchanted by overcoming it.
Human child brought up by ogress becomes a man-eater.
Taste of human flesh leads to habitual cannibalism.
Husband becomes cannibal from eating wife's breast.
Human blood (flesh) accidentally tasted: brings desire for human flesh.
People fear that boy who eats raw birds will eat them when he grows older.
Girl seduced by brother becomes cannibal ogre.
Person eats own flesh.
Person eats self up.
People who eat child become supernatural.
Relative's flesh eaten unwittingly.
Child recognizes relative's flesh when it is served to be eaten.
Girl avoids eating her mother's flesh by spilling the meat and the soup in the pen.
Mother recognizes child's flesh when it is served to be eaten.
Murderer caused to eat victim's flesh unwittingly.
Unwitting cannibalism: scavenger in wedding feast finds basket of noses put there by hero and thinks it full of meat.
Human flesh being cooked speaks out.
Hungry seamen eat human flesh.
Unnatural children eat parent.
Girl attempts to eat parents but they escape.
Unnatural parents eat children.
Woman plans to eat her children.
Starving woman abandoned in cave eats newborn child.
Girl child fed on infant boys' flesh to make her grow faster.
Voice of slain and eaten child comes from the heart of cannibal.
Girls eat their sister.
Brothers eat their sister.
Brother eats brother.
Man eats friend.
Father takes his daughter to cannibal to be eaten.
Aged person eaten.
Husband eats wife.
Cannibalism during plague.
Cannibalism in time of famine.
Occasional cannibalism--deliberate--miscellaneous.
Animal-wife devours her husband.
Woman eats daughter-in-law.
Unwitting marriage to cannibal *Type 311; *MacCulloch Childhood 291ff.
Cannibal marries wife by force.
Cannibal fattens victim.
Cannibal cuts captive's finger to test fatness.
Captive sticks out bone instead of finger when cannibal tries to test his fatness.
Cannibal sharpens knife to kill captive.
Ogress whets teeth to kill captive.
Fee-fi-fo-fum.
Ungrateful cannibal.
Cannibals cut off parts of children's bodies.
Cannibal ogress gives finger of one girl to her frightened sister.
Cannibal crunching human bone says noise is only eating of peas.
Cannibal has long tooth and long nail.
Men with iron claws eat girl.
Man-eater with two great tusks on which he hangs the carcasses of the dead.
Cannibalism brings madness.
Man forced to eat dead father's heart goes mad.
Man forced to eat dead father's heart struck dumb.
Cannibalism causes death.
Cannibal hard to lift.
Cannibal breaks wind as means of attack.
Cannibal's gigantic meal.
Ogress takes travelers out of cave and devours them one by one.
Cannibal ogres eat daily ten men, ten women, ten children from the same tribe.
Old man says his arm is getting thin--indicates desire for human flesh.
Giant ogre (Fomorian).
Giant gambler as ogre.
Valley of the one hundred giants.
Giant ogres possess castle.
Giant's fields fertile; others arid.
Blind giant ogre.
Three giants with one eye.
One-eyed giant (ogre).
Giant's hair grows into rock.
Giant ogress with breasts thrown over her shoulder.
Skeleton giant.
Fire-spewing giantess.
Giant ogre in shape of animal.
Giant ogre in the shape of a cat.
Giant ogre in shape of horse.
Giant ogre never crosses water.
Two giants with one axe.
Giant herdsman.
Giant with tree for herding-stick.
Giant hacked so that a staircase is made up his body.
King of the giants.
Giant ogre's prodigious speed.
Giant's shriek heard five miles away.
Giant issues out of tiny vessel.
Giant lives in a castle in the air.
Giant roasts camels, elephants for food on crater of volcano.
Three witch sisters.
Three witches (hags) deformed from much spinning.
Beneficent witches.
Origin of witches.
Witch daughter of fairy and man.
Witches come forth at emergence of mankind.
Girl in service of witch.
Witch stepmother.
Witch has (three) giant sons.
Male witch.
Witch invisible.
Witch in animal form.
Witch in form of domestic beast.
Witch in form of horse.
Witch in form of headless horse.
Witch as horse shod with horseshoes.
Witch in form of mule.
Witch in form of cow.
Witch in form of sheep.
Witch in form of goat.
Witch in form of hog.
Witch in form of cat.
Witch in form of dog.
Witch in form of wild beast.
Witch in form of bear.
Witch in form of wolf.
Witch in form of fox.
Witch in form of deer.
Witch in form of stag.
Witch in form of mouse.
Witch in form of rat.
Witch in form of hare.
Witch as hare allows self to be coursed by dogs for pay or for sport.
Witch as raccoon.
Witch as hedgehog.
Witch in form of bat.
Witch in form of domestic bird.
Witch in form of hen.
Witch in form of rooster.
Witch in form of duck.
Witch in form of goose (gosling).
Witch in form of wild bird.
Witch in form of crow.
Witch in form of partridge.
Witch in form of heath hen.
Witch in form of owl.
Witch in the form of buzzard.
Witch in form of an insect.
Witch in form of fly.
Witch in form of bee.
Witch in form of beetle.
Witch in amphibian form.
Witch in form of toad.
Witch in form of crocodile.
Witch in form of fish.
Witch in form of whale.
Witch in form of reptile.
Witch in form of snake.
Witch in form of mythical animal.
Witch in form of dragon.
Witch in form of object.
Witch in form of blade of straw.
Witch in form of cookstove.
Witch in form of a scroll.
Witch in form of a tree.
Witch in form of ball of fire.
Witch with extraordinary eyes.
One-eyed witch.
Witch with red eyes.
Witch with receding eyes.
Witch with blazing eyes.
Witch with extraordinary teeth.
Witch with long teeth.
Witch with iron teeth.
Witch with nine rows of teeth.
Witch with twisted tusks (reaching to her shoulders).
Witch extraordinary as to head.
Seven-headed witch.
Witch with extraordinary feet.
Witch with goose feet.
Witch with enormous hands.
Form of witch--miscellaneous.
Witch with iron members.
Witch (troll-woman) with beard.
Witch has long nails.
Witch with very long hair.
Wrinkled witch.
Witch is twisted, bony (has lumps on body).
Black witch.
Tailed witch.
Witch with fifteen tails.
Witch with knife-like tail.
Witch's back covered with nails and broken glass.
"Black" and "white" witches.
Sex of witches.
Strength of witches.
Strength of witches in hair.
Witch's hair has power to bind or to transform.
Strength of witches depends on their touching earth.
Witch has extraordinary bodily strength.
Witch marks stone with finger marks.
Witch cannot be hurt if she looks attacker in the face.
Luminous witches.
When devil combs witches, sparks fly.
Luminous witch-boat.
Head of beheaded witch mends if rubbed with salt.
Source of witch's magic.
Witch's charm opposite of Christian.
Witch's salve.
Witches get their powers from books.
Person sells soul to devil in exchange for witch powers.
Witch's power received by altering religious ceremony.
Witch power acquired by standing on manure pile, swinging red lantern, looking over shoulder.
Witch gets power by licking brew made from a serpent.
Person gets witch power by walking twelve times around a church backward at midnight.
Witch power is inherited.
Witch power is transferred from one person to another.
Witch power from bone ("witch bone").
Witch bone from toad.
Witch bone from cat.
Word charm gives witch power.
Other sources of witch's power.
Witch uses bottle of horse-nail stumps to bewitch people.
Witches renew powers periodically.
Witch's familiar spirit.
Witch feeds animal familiar with her own blood.
Familiar is given to witch by devil when person becomes witch.
Familiars do work for witch.
Bullets will not harm witch's familiars.
Familiar's abode is magician's cellar.
Familiar's abode is hearth of magician.
Familiar comes at nightfall and disappears at cockcrow.
Familiar to be fed on human meat.
Insect as witch's familiar.
Horse as witch's companion.
Cat as servant of witch.
Toad as witch's familiar.
Witch has an army of dragons, lions and bears.
Dog as witch's familiar.
Other animal as witch's familiar.
Magician's familiar a pig.
Magician's familiar a viper.
Minor devil or imp as witch's familiar.
Characteristics of witches--miscellaneous.
Soul of witch leaves the body.
Witch who is out of skin is prevented from reentering it when person salts or peppers skin.
Witch carries her children in her own body.
Witches lack bread and salt.
Invulnerability of witches.
Witch can be killed only by certain lance.
Witch can catch bullets and send them back.
Witch's body does not bleed when stuck with sharp object.
Witch says her knees are beads (liver is lead, stomach is copper, or the like).
Beautiful witch.
Witch's body melts stone she sits on.
Blue lights follow witches.
Fire burns up and crackles when wizard passes fireplace.
Witch dwells on cliff.
Witch dwells on glass mountain.
Witch lives in fairy mound.
Witch resides in tree.
Witch lives in monastery.
Witch lives in forest.
Witch rides.
Witch rides on unusual animal.
Witch rides on wolf.
Witch rides on goat.
Witch rides on dog.
Witch rides on cat.
Witch rides on black cat.
Witch rides on whale.
Witch rides on cattle.
Witch rides on tiger.
Witch rides on person.
Witch transforms man to horse and rides him.
Witch transforms person by means of magic bridle.
Person enchanted by witch's salve so as to be ridden by witch.
Witch rides on horse.
Witch rides on horses transformed from straw.
Witch rides horses through air.
Witch's horse or witch leaves mark on church steeple as he goes over.
Witch rides on object.
Witches ride on tubs using goose wings for oars.
Witches travel on water in eggshells.
Witch travels over water in a sieve or a riddle.
Witches ride on bee-hives.
Witch flies through air.
Witch flies through air on broomstick.
Witch smears fat on brooms in preparation for flight.
Witch rides stalk of broom (ragwort).
Witch flies as whirlwind.
Witch flies through air on leaf.
Witches ride tree through the air.
Other objects that bear witches aloft.
Witches use magic aids for flying.
Person flying with witches makes mistake and falls.
Person imitates witch by putting ointment in eye: eye blinded.
Witch's sabbath.
Obeisance to devil at witch's sabbath.
Witches kiss devil's tail.
Parody of church ceremony at witch's sabbath.
Witch's rosary consists of goat dung.
Witches have sexual intercourse with devil or his minions.
Witch gives birth to toads and snakes after union with devil.
Witches worship demon.
Witch spins.
Witch winds yarn.
Witch bathes.
Witch transforms self into snake when she bathes.
Witches bake bread.
Witches dance.
Witches dance with devil at witch's holiday.
Witches feast on rich food and drink.
Man joins feast of witches.
Habits of witches--miscellaneous.
Witches drive herds of deer.
Witches scream.
Witch enters and leaves house by chimney.
Witch returns late home and leaves early.
Witches boil cauldron of wizardry (cook dog).
Witch followed by husband; dies when discovered.
Witches go through keyholes.
Witches open doors and windows.
Witches vanish from prison.
Witches can see in the dark.
Witches use eyes of animals to travel at night.
Witches rock empty chairs.
Man discovers his wife is a witch.
Witch recognized by seeing wandering soul return.
Witch recognized by seeing wasp (beetle) enter her mouth while asleep.
Separable soul of witch in parrot.
Witch recognized when skin of witch is found with soul absent.
Witch in form of cat has hand cut off: recognized next morning by missing hand.
A cat in form of an old woman has hand cut off; recognized next morning by missing paw.
Witch killed as whale.
Goat's tongue pierced with sharp needle; consequently, witch is sick with pierced tongue.
Bird's neck broken: rakshasa dies.
Witch's horns discovered by lousing her.
Witch known by inability to rise from chair with four-leaf clover under it.
Witch cannot rise if ring lies under her chair.
Witch known by inability to rise from chair with salt under cushion.
Witch known by hose unbound on one leg.
Charms to cause witch to reveal herself.
Burning object forces witch to reveal herself: sympathetic magic.
Reading Bible backwards causes witch to reveal herself.
Turning table, cutting notches in it causes witch to reveal herself.
Taking tile from witch's house forces her to reveal herself.
Person puts man's breeches over cow's head; the cow stops in front of witch's house.
Person places three notched elder twigs under bowl.
Witch recognition--miscellaneous methods.
Witch recognized by looking in or through magic object.
Witch recognized by odor.
Witch may be recognized by absence of bleeding when she is pricked with pins.
Witch may be recognized after death by great weight of corpse.
Witch stretches out her hand and brings water from ocean without getting out of her bed; is recognized.
Witch steals children.
Witch steals child with hand through chimney.
Murderous witch.
Lamia.
Lamia devours her lover.
Witch sucks blood.
Witch's cat as sucker of blood.
Witch sucks blood from woman's or child's breasts.
Witches suck blood from the navel of a child without anyone knowing it.
Witch eats person's entrails (heart).
Witch in animal form kills.
Witch in form of she-goat kills men.
Witch as cat causes death.
Witch kills with aid of witch-ball (hair rolled in beeswax).
Witch takes out man's liver.
Witch injures, enchants or transforms.
Witch (female demon) has persons she has enchanted as servants.
Witch transforms person to animal.
Witch transforms her lovers into animals.
Witch transforms man to bear.
Witch transforms person to seal.
Witch transforms man to cow.
Witch transforms husband into dog.
Witch transforms man to bird.
Witch transforms man to crow.
Witch transforms man to dove.
Witch transforms man to object.
Witch transforms to stone.
Witch transforms man into soapstone.
Witch transforms man to tree.
Witch causes other transformation.
Witch transforms townspeople into witches.
Witch transforms girl into man.
Witch causes sickness.
Illness caused by curse of witch.
Witch causes toothache.
Witch causes fits.
Witch cripples or lames through illness.
Witch makes person dumb.
Witch makes person blind.
Witch revives dead.
Witchcraft causes maiden to hate lover.
Witch causes insanity.
Witch makes person lousy.
La Belle Dame Sans Merci.
Ogress bathes in pool, is transformed into beautiful maiden, and becomes king's favorite wife.
Woman is death of all who behold her.
Witch's kisses disfigure person.
Female ogre seduces men with charm (words).
Witch disguised becomes queen, devours king's horses nightly.
Fairy-like witch marries man and causes him misfortune.
Witch abuses property.
Witch scatters tools at night.
Witch drowns foal.
Witch rides horse at night.
Witch's hair on horse becomes iron.
Witches cause disease or death of animals.
Witch punishes owner for injury or slight by killing his animals.
Witch causes death of animals.
Witch causes illness of animals.
Witch maims animals.
Witch causes animals to behave unnaturally.
Witch causes pigs to behave unnaturally.
Witch causes pigs to dance.
Witch causes cattle to behave unnaturally.
Witch causes cattle to run about wildly.
Witch causes horse to behave unnaturally.
Witch causes dog to behave unnaturally.
Witch causes dog to dance on hind legs.
Witch controls actions of animals.
Witch bewitches objects.
Witch bewitches household articles.
Witch bewitches clothing.
Witch bewitches implements and machinery.
Witch bewitches gun.
Gun bewitched so that it will not hit target.
Witch throws bullets back at shooter.
Witch bewitches wagon.
Object bewitched--miscellaneous.
Witch causes hangman's rope to dance so that it cannot be tied to hang her.
Witch bewitches goose eggs so that they do not hatch.
Witch bewitches buildings.
Witches ruin crop.
Witch kills balsam plant after owner refuses to give some to the witch.
Witches bewitch trees.
Witches shake fruit off trees to punish owner.
Witches steal.
Invisible witches steal goods in market.
Man pursued by witches.
Evil deeds of witches--miscellaneous.
Witch begs man to scratch her back: kills him.
Witch pretends sickness and kicks helper into pit.
Witch asks for snuff so that she may seize man.
Witch harnesses man and leads him to dance.
Witch rides man to dance.
Curse by disappointed witch.
Curse by other angry ogres or ogresses.
Witch causes haunted houses.
Witch eats up visitor's bow.
Witch estranges brothers.
Ship wrecked by witch.
Witch cuts steaks from hero's body.
Witch punishes person who incurs her ill will.
Witch kills person as punishment.
Witch causes deformity.
Witch causes person to become hunchbacked.
Witch causes person's arm to wither.
Witch causes person to break limbs.
Witch breaks bridegroom's leg when slighted by bride.
Witch causes person to fall from height.
Witch causes person to be burned.
Witch scratches person.
Witch causes gun to explode, injuring person.
Invisible witch sticks victim with pins.
Witch pushes man around on floor (witch is invisible).
Witches as ducks pinch victim.
Witch prevents woman from putting one foot on floor.
Witch torments person by making him act in ridiculous manner.
Witch causes person to break wind in presence of others.
Witch causes person to mew like cat and neigh like horse.
Witch causes man to strip naked and imitate a jockey riding himself.
Witch makes girl believe her lover has ass's head.
Witch causes lovers on stile to think they are surrounded by water.
Witch makes man believe a dead bull is alive and chasing him.
Witch causes person to spin around on bedpost.
Witch stands person on her head.
Witch exorcised.
Witch exorcised by burning stick.
Witch exorcised by use of religious ceremony, object, or charm.
Sign of the cross marked on bewitched object breaks witch spell.
Cross marked on horn and forehead of cow causes bewitched cow to give normal amount of milk.
Witch exorcised by holy water.
Name of deity breaks witch's spell.
Priestly exorcism for witch.
Bible used in exorcism of witch.
Dust from communion table breaks spell.
Use of salt in exorcism of witch.
Exorcism by use of sympathetic magic.
Exorcism by burning object for sympathetic magic.
Exorcism by injuring image of witch.
Breaking spell by destroying image of victim used by the witch in torturing the victim.
Breaking spell on animal by bleeding or maiming animal.
Breaking spell by beating the person or object bewitched.
Breaking spell by sticking sharp object into tracks of witch.
Breaking spell by burying bottle of water, preventing witch from urinating until the bottle is emptied.
Breaking spell by shooting bewitched object.
Breaking spell on animal by pulling three hairs from tail.
Breaking spell by burying animal alive.
Breaking spell on cream by holding churn handle hard against bottom of churn.
Exorcism by violent treatment of the witch in person.
Exorcism of witch by countercharm.
Exorcism of witch by special burial practice.
Exorcism by means of ghoulish charm.
Sick child from witchcraft is put on anvil; smith strikes violently but brings hammer down gently, three times.
Person removes string with thirteen knots from child's mouth.
Protection against witches.
Steel powerful against witches.
Magic herb protects from witch.
Rowan wood (quicken, etc.) protects against witches.
Witchhazel used for protection against witches.
Hawthorn used as protection against witches.
Bay leaves used as protection against witches.
Knife in bed as protection against witches.
Fires burnt in streets to ward off witches.
Protection from witch by spitting.
Sieve as protection against witches.
Object across door protects from witch.
Beam across door protects from witch.
Broom across door protects from witch.
Pouring water on fire from new cup protects from witch.
Reversing the poker protects from witch.
Stopped bottle as protection against witches.
Horseshoe hung up as protection against witches.
Straws as protection against witch.
Stone with a hole through it protects against witches.
Witch kept under control by means of a magic iron nail driven in her head.
Witch controlled by means of magic spells.
Salt protects against witches.
Salt put into churn before churning to protect cream from witch.
Burning thatch from home of witch protects against witch.
Grass from new grave protects against witches.
Witch rendered powerless.
Witch powerless when one makes sign of cross.
Witch powerless from lightbeam sent by saint.
Witch powerless when person speaks before she does.
Witch powerless at cockcrow.
Witch powerless to cross stream.
If witch grabs horse's tail on bridge, man is safe from her.
Witches powerless at crossroads.
Witch burned by furrows drawn round her home.
Witch rendered powerless by drawing blood from her.
Objects driven into tracks of witch immobilize her.
Straw driven into witch's track immobilizes her.
Steel driven into witch's track immobilizes her.
Witch snared.
Witch snared by setting out milk.
Witch defeated.
Witch carried off by devil.
Witch carried off by devil's crew.
Witch overcome by helpful dogs of hero.
Witch burned.
Witch can be destroyed only by burning her to death.
Witch burned by burning bewitched animal.
Witch's heart (lungs, stomach) impossible to burn.
Seven-headed witch defeated by throwing egg at each head.
Witch killed, as egg with her soul is crushed against her forehead.
Witch forced to divulge her secret powers.
Witch bribed to divulge her secret powers.
Witch surrendered by sons.
Witch bound and beaten.
Witch beheaded.
Hero kills witch.
Witch killed by placing salt or pepper inside skin while it is laid aside.
Witch overcome by help of fairy.
Fighting and wrestling with witch.
Witch as participater in battle.
Witches punished in hell.
Witch in the form of an animal is injured or killed as a result of the injury to the animal.
Rough treatment of object causes injury or death to witch.
Witch out of body while traveling at night is injured; witch's body is injured at home.
Witch overcome by threats.
Witch overcome by threatening with sword.
Escape from witch.
Hen put in witch's hair to scratch while maid escapes.
Testing of witches.
Death of witch.
Marvelous manifestations at death of witch.
Witch overcome or escaped--miscellaneous.
Overpowered witch-maid commits suicide.
Theft from witch.
Gold stolen from witch.
Consecrated wafer kept in mouth in order to be a witch.
Witch gives away consecrated wafer after service.
Witches punish lazy spinning women.
Witches have control over weather.
Witch raises winds.
Methods witch uses to raise wind.
Reason why witch raises wind.
Witch raises contrary wind to keep ship in port.
Witch raises wind to aid becalmed boat.
Witch raises wind to sink ships of people who have injured her.
Witch raises wind to winnow grain.
Witch raises wind to blow man's fleeces away.
Witch raises wind to break up enemy's lumber pound.
Witch sells power to control winds.
Witch keeps winds from blowing.
Witch keeps wind from blowing by putting cat under barrel.
Witch produces rain or snow.
Witch produces clear weather.
Witch as helper.
Witches avoid religious ceremonies.
At communion witches spit out wine over shoulder.
Initiation into witchcraft.
Women learn witchcraft by masking as men.
Witches married to fairies.
Witch escapes from locked room.
Witch executed for engaging in witchcraft.
Witch makes man engage in dangerous contests.
Other witch motifs.
Witch calls up spirits of dead, causes them to walk on water.
Witch is heard struggling with devil.
Monsters.
Demons.
Origin of demons and their companions.
Demons: soul of the giants who perished in the flood.
Evil spirits born of echo in chaos.
Varieties of demons.
Kingdom of demons.
Devil King.
Form of demon.
Demon's size changed at will.
Demon as fiery pillar.
Demon in animal form.
Demon in form of old woman.
Physical characteristics of demons.
Six characteristics of demons: three like angels, three like men.
Invisibility of demons.
Demons have only souls but no bodies.
Demons cast no shadow.
Feet of demons.
Demons have cock-feet.
Haunts of demons.
Desert the abode of demons.
Egypt as abode of demons.
Demons present at discussion in academies.
Circumstances of demons' appearance.
Demons appear only at stated times.
Mortal experiences of demons.
Sexual relation between man and demons.
Demons marry among themselves.
Demon's helpers.
Deeds of demons.
Demons attack men.
Demons abduct men and torment them.
Demons tempt men.
Demons injure and strangle little children.
Demons help Satan.
Demons fool men in their dreams.
Enormous quantities of food eaten by demons.
Demons teach men idolatry.
Demons goad man to treachery.
Devil.
The origin of the devil and his companions.
The devil originates from God.
God creates the devil (Satan) from his own shadow.
Devil originates from God's spittle.
The devil originates from the spittle of an evil man.
God changes an angel into the devil, because he tried to imitate God in creating the world.
God creates the devil by striking a stone with his whip.
God discovers the devil.
God finds the devil sitting under a tree which was made by his throwing his staff into the water.
God finds the devil under a stone.
God discovers the devil in a piece of solid foam.
The devil is created without the special aid of God.
The devil is developed from man.
The devil is created out of a bubble.
The devil is created out of sea-foam.
Pagan gods became devils.
Satan created out of hell fire.
The devil creates other devils.
The devil creates devils by casting water behind himself.
Devils are created from sparks produced by Satan's striking two stones together.
Five devils created by Adam create other devils in the same manner.
Devils are created from sinful priests.
Tuatha De Danann as demons (fallen angels).
Two devils (male and female) extracted from corpse's belly.
Names applied to the devil.
Devil calls himself "Puss".
Devil is called "the black one".
Devil says his name is "Millearces" (thousand ways to lead men to sin).
Gaelic titles given to the devil: Forms in which the devil appears.
Devil in hideous form.
The devil in human form.
Devils in guise of human beings require remarkable quantity of food.
The devil as a large, strong man.
The devil as a well-dressed gentleman.
The devil as a distinguished-looking knight.
Devil as a ribald traveler.
Devil appears in the form of a man who is repugnantly ugly.
The devil as a little, gray old man.
The devil as a black man.
Devil as a huntsman.
Devil in form of priest.
Devil as a hermit.
Devil as ascetic.
Devil in form of pilgrim.
Devil as a peasant.
Devil as three gentlemen.
Devil in form of woman.
Devil in form of woman lures and punishes women.
Devil as a beautiful young woman seduces man.
Devil appears as a beautiful black wench.
Devil appears as old woman to seduce monk from cloister.
Devil (in queen's form) insatiable, although she copulates with all men and horses.
Devil as cook.
Devil as student.
Devil appears as a Jew.
Devil appears as a child.
Devils appear as ladies and gentlemen.
Devil as shoemaker.
Devil as merchant.
Devil appears in shape of a dead man while hidden in his corpse or skin.
The devil as a great hairy man.
Devil as astrologer.
Satan disguised as beggar.
Satan as very old man.
Satan disguised as king.
The devil in superhuman from.
Devil appears as Christ.
Devil as crucifix.
Devil (Satan) appears as an angel.
Devil as a dwarf.
Devil in form of dragons and monsters of various sorts.
Devil appears as Virgin Mary.
The devil in animal form.
Devil in form of domestic beast.
Devil in form of dog.
Devil in form of a cat.
Devil as horse.
Devil in form of cow (bull, ox).
Devil in form of swine.
Devil in form of goat.
Devil in form of ram.
Devil in form of wild beast.
Devil in form of wolf.
Devil in form of fox.
Devil in form of hare.
Devil in form of mouse.
Devil in form of lion.
Devil in form of squirrel.
Devil in form of monkey.
Devil in form of deer.
Devil in form of hyena.
Devil in form of a terrifying elephant.
Devil in form of bird.
Devil in form of raven.
Devil in form of crow.
Devil in form of black bird.
Devil in form of woodcock.
Devil in form of cock.
Devil in form of owl.
Devil in form of insect.
Devil in form of gnat.
Devil in form of spider.
Devil in form of wasp.
Devil in form of fly.
Devil in form of fish.
Devil in form of reptile.
Devil in form of snake.
Devil in form of amphibian.
Devil in form of toad.
Miscellaneous other animal forms in which the devil appears: bear; ant; wild goose.
Devil in form of inanimate objects.
Devil in form of wheel on wagon.
Devil as a black ball.
Devil as a ball of fire.
Devil (Black Donald) as a bunch of ferns.
Devil as wind.
Devil as whirlwind.
Devil as a barrel.
Devil in shape of a stone.
Devil in the form of a sheaf.
Devil in form of round bowl.
Devil in form of house.
Devil in form of ungainly bundle.
Devil as stream of water.
Devil changes shape.
Devil becomes larger and larger.
Devil becomes smaller and smaller.
Devil becomes heavier and heavier.
Forms into which the devil cannot change.
Devil cannot change into pike.
Devil cannot change into dove.
Devil cannot change into lamb.
The devil cannot change into a sheep.
The devil's physical characteristics.
The devil's head.
Devil has ninety-nine heads.
Devil's eyes.
Devil with eye in middle of forehead.
Devil with glowing eyes.
Two beams of fire shoot from devil's eyes.
Devil has saucer eyes.
Devil has passionate look in eyes.
Devil has no eyebrows.
Devil is blind.
Devil's beard.
Devil has a red beard.
Devil's nose.
Devil has a long nose.
Devil has only one nostril or is without nostrils at all.
Devil's teeth.
Devil has shining teeth.
One of devil's teeth grows down to the earth; another to sky.
Devil has horns.
Devil has two horns.
Devil child born with horns.
The devil's face.
Devil's face is black.
Devil's hair.
Devil's hair blood-red.
Devil has three golden hairs.
The devil's wings.
The devil has six wings.
The devil has twelve wings.
The devil's thumb.
Devil has glowing thumb.
Devil's thumb the size of two fists.
Devil has claws.
Devil has five claws.
Devil has claws on his feet.
The devil's feet and legs.
Devils have only one leg.
Devil has only one foot.
Devil's shoes are empty.
Devil has a broken foot.
Devil has horse's foot.
Devil detected by his hoofs.
Devil's footprints without any toes.
The devil has goat feet.
Devil is betrayed by his goat hoofs.
Devil has pig's foot.
Devil's knees are backwards.
Devil has no heels.
Devil has club foot.
Devil has cock's feet.
The devil's tail.
A little girl recognizes the devil by his tail.
Boy recognizes devil when he fans fire with his tail.
Devil speaks with voice of a he-goat.
Miscellaneous characteristics of devil.
Devil has sulphurous odor.
Devil holds molten coin in mouth.
Devil holds fire in his hands.
Devil claims to be 7,777 years old.
Devil never eats in an inn.
Devil carries a thorn stick.
Devil is swift of foot.
Devil with pitchfork.
Devil laughs (weeps) when men weep (laugh).
Devil all speckled and spotted.
Devil's hand marks person he touches.
Devil in animal form cannot be hit by bullets.
Devil picks up live coals to light pipe.
Devil invisible.
How the devil is dressed.
Devil is dressed in black.
Devil in a black cloak.
Devil is dressed in green.
Devil in green clothing with hat.
Devil as a hunter in green.
Devil wears a bright green coat.
The devil dressed in red.
Devil dressed in blue clothes.
Devil dressed in hunting clothes.
Circumstances of the devil's appearance.
When the devil appears.
Devil appears at midnight.
Devil comes when called upon.
Devil writes into book names of those who call on him.
Devil appears to claim soul offered to devil in jest.
Devil appears when a woman looks at herself in the mirror after sunset.
Devil appears when cards are played.
Devil invoked through medium of a black dog.
Devil appears on Hallowe'en.
People to whom the devil appears.
Devil appears invisible among dancers.
Devil appears at meetings of witches.
Devil appears among youths who jest while they say their evening prayers.
Devil visible to one who walks in minister's (or minister's wife's) holy shoes (galoshes).
Devil appears to persons ready to abandon their integrity.
Devil appears to minister's serving man to warn of impending disaster to the house.
Devil appears to girl who prays over pit where she has thrown the bodies of her babies.
Devil appears to dying man.
Devil appears to saint (cleric).
Saint is able to see devils.
Devil appears to scholar.
Devil appears to Eve.
Devil hides in clothes of people running from storm.
Devil appears to person who cuts both ends off loaf of bread.
Devil appears to Sabbath breakers.
Devil appears when person steals.
Devil causes boy to make noise of wind breaking after he has stolen bushel of corn to pay for shoes.
Natural phenomena accompanying the devil's appearance.
Devil is followed by a thunderstorm.
The devil appears during thunderstorm, seeking shelter among people.
Devil comes in the whirlwind.
Devil and the wind travel together.
Devil appears in an intense light and with strong odor of sulphur.
Devil's coming heralded by piercing whistle.
How the devil travels.
Devil rides horse.
Devil rides on black horse.
Devil's horses are transformed men.
Devil's horse has human feet.
Devil (gentleman) invites traveler into his wagon.
Devil (gentleman) invites girls into his sleigh.
Devil rides horse at night hunting lost souls over the heath.
Devil rides away on an ass.
Devil drives horse and wagon.
Devil in wagon drawn by two black horses carries off impious people.
Devil drives carriage drawn by horses whose nostrils shoot fire.
Devil in coach drawn by headless horses.
Devil pursues man from carriage drawn by four white horses.
Devil travels in coach drawn by four blood-red horses, the hoofs of which strike fire from the pavement.
Devil comes in a cart.
Devil drives several teams of oxen.
Devil rides on hog, drives another.
Devil drives six he-goats.
Devil rides cow until she goes mad.
Devil flies like bird.
Devil's expulsion from heaven and his present haunts.
Devil driven from heaven.
God has Elias drive devils from heaven.
Archangels Michael and Gabriel drive Satan and other devils from heaven to earth.
Devil becomes an angel.
Devils carry away the sun when they fall from heaven.
The devil in hell.
Devil is thrust into hell by God.
Devil builds himself a castle and calls it hell.
Devil's house is visible on the way to hell.
Devil lives in a church.
Devil bound with huge chain near northern side of Tamdrup church.
Devil in each stone of church built with ill-gotten wealth.
Devil in interior of earth.
Devil and his servants live where perjurers dwell.
Devil's abode is between hoofs of swine.
Devil lives in the water.
Devils in woman's train.
Devil in fold of knight's cloak.
Devil in dragon's head on a shield.
Devil in a stone.
Devil in the stable wrapped in horse-hide.
Devil in the woods.
Youth meets devil in woods.
Forest devil the one which fell in the forest when driven from heaven.
Devil in woods to gather nuts on Christmas Eve.
Devils dwell in heathen idols, as well as portraits and images.
Devil hidden in a corpse.
Deeds of the devil.
The devil as a builder.
Devil as builder of bridges.
Devil as builder of dams.
Devil as builder of mill.
Devil as builder of walls.
Devil as builder of palaces (chвteaux).
Devil as builder of churches.
Devil builds a road.
Devil builds a ditch.
Devil builds two islands in a lake.
Devil builds an inn for a man in competition with a church being built.
Devil builds Mont Saint Michel.
Devil helps build Halberstadt Cathedral thinking a tavern is being built.
Devil builds a building.
Satan builds idol.
Satan builds another world.
The devil performs deeds of unusual strength.
Devil pulls up tree to goad his oxen.
Devil builds road for farmer in one day.
Devil plows and plants grain for farmer in one day.
Devil and Drake carry waters of English Channel from Dartmoor to Plymouth.
Devil and Michael Scott carry tide an additional five miles up River Wansbeck.
The devil hires out.
Devil hires out to a farmer.
The devil takes service with a farmer in return for the bread he stole.
Devil is employed as a midwife.
Devils help people at work, but are feared nevertheless.
The devil is always to blame.
The devil as a tempter.
Satan causes storm to destroy property of man he tempts.
Satan smites man he tempts with leprosy.
Devil gives Eve two grains of corn.
Devil persuades man to commit suicide.
The devil teaches man how to hang himself.
Devil tries to get man to kill his bride (wife).
Devil tempts cleric (hermit).
Devils appear to knight to try to call him from doing penance.
Devil by trick conjures vision to make idolators of believers.
Disguised devil as messenger to adulterous people.
Satan stops men from praying.
Devil tempts saints.
Devil instructs saint on virtues by which to attain Heaven.
Devil tempts girl.
Devil and girl.
Devil tempts youth to deny Virgin.
Devil tries to move repentant sinner to despair.
Woman worships the devil.
The devil as an abductor.
Devil abducts girl: has her hang about his neck and he flees to hell.
Devil carries away a lord on his back.
Devil compels two miners to follow him.
Devil carries man through air as swift as wind (thought).
Devil combs Mme.
Man temporarily abducted by devil.
Devil carries a Jew to hell.
Devil takes violinist when he needs a good fiddler in hell.
The devil fights.
The devil is armed.
Devil fights with man.
Devil is overcome by man in fight.
Satan fights Israel.
Satan attacks saints.
Devil inflames saint's injured eye.
The devil advises human beings.
Devil advises young girl not to go to a castle.
Devil exhorts youth to enjoy himself and not to think of God.
The devil advises a suspicious husband.
Devil disguised as man tells of trip to heaven and hell.
Miscellaneous actions of the devil.
Devil spins and knits.
Devil plays fiddle at wedding.
Devil sings (dances) on grave.
Devil causes salamander to appear in glass of rum, drinks it.
Devil engages in drinking contest with man for purse of gold.
Satan asks God to put man into his power (Job).
Satan makes wager with God about mortal's piety.
Satan prays to God.
Satan chants songs of praise to God.
Satan weeps.
Satan as blasphemer.
Pranks played by the devil.
Devil prevents moving of little stone by sitting on it.
Devil interrupts mass by pretended battle.
Devil steals knight's cloak.
Devil takes an unbaptized child out of the cradle and lays a wooden log in its place.
Devil piles sand in ocean so that vessels may run aground.
Devil leads and misguides people.
Trying all night to catch an animal (really devil).
Taking snuff with the devil.
Devil challenges boys to play a disc-game.
Exchanging things with the devil.
The devil as tailor to a dandy.
Devil engages in horse race with man.
Devil flies away with sentry box.
Devil drinks church well dry at one draught.
Devil stampedes horses of general.
Devil takes place of girl man is embracing in private place.
Devil as crow misleads travelers, puts out their lights.
Devil moves seats in church.
Devil plays marbles in church.
Satan entangles ram's horns on the altar.
Satan liberates caught deer.
Allies and possessions of the devil.
Cat as follower of the devil.
Toad as follower of the devil.
Snake as follower of the devil.
Dancers as followers of the devil.
Devil haunts dance halls.
Devil dances with a maid until she dies.
Two devils come to a dance-loving maid and play when she bathes.
Devil teaches a dance-loving maid to dance.
Devil appears to girl who wants an escort for a dance.
Devil dances with maid and puts his claws through her hands.
Where the devil can't reach, he sends an old woman.
Devil in league with a freemason.
Devil gives luck with fishing and hunting.
Horses are offspring of the devil.
An all-red, all-black, or all-white calf the property of the devil.
Lizards are offspring of the devil.
The spurge-laurel is the devil's bush.
The devil owns the reeds.
Thistles and nettles are the devil's vegetables.
The bagpipe is the devil's bellows.
Devil has a hound.
Devil has a servant.
Bird as messenger of devil.
Angels of Satan.
Devil's well.
The relatives of the devil.
The devil's wife.
The devil's son is with his mother at night in his father's place.
The devil's son.
The devil and his son fight over division of the earth.
The devil's children and grandchildren do his work for him.
The devil's mother.
Devil's mother rides a goat.
The devil's grandmother.
Devil's grandmother keeps house for devil.
Devil's grandmother is bleaching when it snows.
The devil's daughter.
The devil and his nine daughters.
Marital experiences of the devil.
Devil wooes an innkeeper's daughter.
Devil marries a widow who maltreats him.
Devil marries old maid who proves to be a termagant and a miser.
Devil visits woman and founds a family.
Devil marries girl.
Girl married to a devil.
Devil marries disdainful girl; she escapes.
Devil marries girl whose rich mother refuses to let her marry common young men of community.
Devil wooes woman; Girl married to devil escapes with answers to his riddles.
Girl wooed by devil is saved by magic herb she wears.
Devil takes form of girl's lover and takes advantage of her.
Devil in guise of woman woos man.
Man marries a she-devil He catches her as succubus and marries.
Devil's sexual relations with mortals.
Satan's sexual intercourse with Eve.
The stupid devil.
Devils do not know or understand thoughts of men.
Devil works backward.
Devil tries to wall in too large a piece of ground in a night and fails.
The devil tries to learn a trade; he fails miserably at all but versemaking.
Simple-minded devil indicates how he can be driven away.
Devil's unfinished work cannot be completed by human hands.
The devil destroys by night what is built by day.
Devil destroys Adam's work by night.
Devil builds bridge except for one stone.
Places haunted by the devil.
Devil haunts premises about to be visited by calamity.
Granary now haunted because of devil's defeat.
Devil haunts a house.
Devils haunt tree.
Particular species of tree abode of devils.
Ruins of a palace haunted by Satan.
Satan appears at a feast where the poor are absent.
How the devil's power may be escaped or avoided.
By the help of the Virgin Mary the devil may be escaped.
Devil's power over one avoided by prayer.
Devil cannot take one who has read the Pater Noster.
Devil cannot enter person who is thinking of God.
Person saved from devil by prayer to Virgin.
Devil's power avoided by blessing.
Man escapes devils by reading Lord's blessing.
Devil flees at pope's blessing.
Devils disappear when priest blesses bread.
A nun eating unblessed lettuce eats a demon.
Blessing reveals seemingly pure stream to be devil's trap which kills whoever drinks from it.
Devils driven away by hymn (psalm).
Demon cannot hurt holy man or woman.
Devil's power avoided by the cross.
Devils driven away by cross.
Devil cannot endure cross made by straps of knapsack.
Devils put to flight by cross made of leaves.
Devil made to disappear by making sign of the cross.
Knight dismisses devil in name of cross.
Devil made visible by making sign of cross.
Words of religious comfort cause devil and his crew to vanish.
Administering sacrament destroys devil's power.
Chaplain administers sacrament and saves woman's soul from devil.
Devil disappears when offered host.
Man is rescued from devil by baptism.
Devil is chased by holy water.
Devil leaves at mention of God's name.
Devil is made impotent by confession.
Angels save person from the devil.
Various holy persons save one from devil.
Devil is driven out of a man by Peter.
Devil prevented from revenge by pious priest.
Person chases the devil away.
Saint expels devil to hell.
Saint's dispute with devil.
Ringing of churchbell causes devil to lose his power.
Devil may be escaped by going to church every day.
The devil exorcised.
Priest chases devil away.
Priest separates girl from devil's claws.
Devil chased by the fumes of burning arsenic.
Devil exorcised by burning wood.
Devil overpowered or chased with a stick of rowan-tree.
Why the devil fears the rowan-tree.
The devil is exorcised with bell, book, and candle.
Devil avoids cockscomb flowers.
Devils leave hermit who turns other cheek when struck.
Devil is cheated of his reward when priest dismisses mass early.
Devil cannot enter a house with horseshoe over door.
One must not whistle after sunset, else the devil will go along with one.
Christians are prohibited from whistling in dark lest the devil appear.
Miscellaneous ways in which the devil may be escaped or his power destroyed.
Man secure from devil on horse.
Devil goes with one if one spits on old castaway brooms.
One is freed if he can set a task the devil cannot perform.
Task for devil: sweeping and winnowing peas on ice.
Task for devil: making needles.
Task for devil: washing a Jew (Jewess), to rid him (her) of the evil smell.
Devil (Satan) flees when cock is made to crow.
Man imitates cock crowing: devil is deceived.
Demon has to serve girl whom he cannot persuade to break vow of chastity.
Man protected from devil by holding three-year old child through night.
Devil comes out of man when monk recognizes devil's voice in man.
Knight saved from devil by friends.
Devil becomes powerless when called by name.
Devil exorcised at time of Christ's Nativity.
Devil frustrated by charity.
Devil can't approach Christian girl.
Devil cannot follow man over running water.
Devil escaped by injuring him with silver bullet.
Devil cannot enter magic circle made to keep him out.
Devil can be driven away by sacrifice.
Devil disappears because he is frightened.
Devil frightened by a woman.
Catching the devil.
Beating the devil.
Devil is killed by hunter.
The devil's disappearance from the world.
When the devil disappears.
Devil disappears when cock crows.
Devil rebels and disappears on last day.
Devil disappears after erection of Tabernacle.
Physical circumstances of devil's disappearance.
Devil detected, goes up chimney in smoke.
Devil disappears in a whirlpool.
Devil goes out through stove with great noise.
Devil and sinful priest disappear amid blaze of fire in the river.
Devil retreats into hell amid thunder and lightning.
Devil disappears in a puddle.
Devil disappears amid terrible rattle.
Devil disappears amid terrible stench.
Devil disappears in carriage drawn by four black horses.
Why the devil has disappeared from the world.
The devil dies of a nosebleed resulting from overheat.
The devil dies when he is fastened in hell's door by his beard.
Wolf eats the devil; therefore, devil no longer lives in the world.
Devil has not been seen since he created the bramble.
Satan punished in hell fire.
Devil enters body of another.
When devil leaves dead sinner's body, only bones remain.
Devil enters body of dead boy.
Devil in place of dead man in shroud (in dead man's skin).
Devil blows skin off man who belongs to him and goes in the skin.
Satan enters the Golden Calf.
The devil takes the hindmost.
The last belongs to the devil.
Farmer has devil aid in reaping contest, loses his shadow when devil attempts to take hindmost.
Ways in which the devil kills people.
Devil kills man with fiery sword.
Devil destroys hunting party with terrible wind.
Devil strikes man dead with iron bar.
Devil strikes man dead with disease.
The devil unpeels a bold woman's skin.
Devil as black dog kills people.
Satan swallows victim.
Satan injures man.
Satan slays the first born of the Egyptians.
The devil's money.
Devil's money becomes ashes.
Devil's money becomes manure.
The devil's money is hot.
The devil helps people.
Devil repays a kindness: returns coat lent him and brings the one who had shown him kindness back home when imprisoned.
Magician recovers lost object with devil's help.
Student is helped by devil when he can answer three questions in rhyme.
Devil helps man place cart wheel when it becomes unfastened.
Devil exhibits benevolence to impious people (to people who make an alliance with him: gives them riches, helps them in need).
Devil helps person to steal.
Devil helps ugly man win wife.
Devil helps journeyman win wager with master.
Devil comes and works with man who continues to work after night.
Devil serves knight faithfully.
Devil as advocate of falsely condemned men.
Devil promises help to mistreated apprentice if youth will meet him by night in lonely spot.
Devil saves heretic from fire, until priest brings host.
Devil as helper in battle.
The devil and the ark.
Devil gets into the ark by hiding in shadow of Noah's wife.
The devil in church.
Devil accuses congregation of sins.
Devil shows priest long parchment roll of sins of congregation.
Devil writes faults of man on goat skin.
Devil writes down names of men on a hide in church.
Devil stands in church door and writes down names of his own people on a sheepskin.
Devil in church fills his sack with dissolute songs.
Devil writes down all idle words spoken in church.
Devil writes names of those who sleep in church.
Devil disturbs people in the church.
Devil writes down names of those who look backwards in church.
Devil writes down names of those who whisper in church.
The devil has two books--one book small for sins of clerics, erased by confession; the other large for unconfessed sins of lay
folks.
Devils worship host.
Devil vexing friars caused to repent by singing "Te sanctum dominum".
Devil destroys church steeple.
Devil as dog chews up Bibles, hymnbooks, church accounts in church.
Miscellaneous devil motifs.
Wolf is the devil's craftiest enemy.
Devils fear St. Isaac.
Devil likes negligence in men more than anything else.
Devil cooks folk in kettle.
Devil's chair in hell made from thrown-away nail parings.
From the parings of man's nails devils make little caps for themselves.
Old woman gives chickens to devils.
Man shoots the devil with a silver gun.
Devil shot with silver bullet.
Devil follows corpse when a lawyer is buried.
Devil follows corpse of a procurator.
Ship with devil aboard sinks.
Devil is blamed by monk for taking what does not belong to him.
Devil takes place of woman who went to spend night with a priest.
A farmer who trades horses with the devil is cheated.
Devil buys a woman's hair; the silver coin which he gives in payment is changed to a piece of wood and she dies.
The food and drink of the devils.
Hideous food and drink at the night-spirits' (devils') feast.
Devil roasts a toad.
The devil's animals.
Tailless fish as devil's hog.
Possessions of the devil.
Devil's pipe, gun or music.
The devils' dances and feasts.
Devil as gentleman invites a traveler to the feast (wedding).
A musician engaged to play for the night-spirits (devils) dances.
Devils arrange a wedding feast for a woman who hanged herself.
Devil can touch man's body, not his soul.
Parliament of devils.
Troll as ogre.
Appearance of troll (ogre).
Troll in animal form.
Troll as fox.
Troll as hare.
Troll as goose.
Troll as crow.
Troll in form of object.
Troll in form of cloud.
Troll in form of key.
Many-headed troll.
Characteristics of trolls.
Fire-producing troll.
Troll lights fingers.
Troll stretches neck so long that fire comes from lips.
Troll's food.
Troll's food gives men strength.
Special powers of troll.
Locks spring open for troll.
Antipathies of trolls.
Trolls cannot endure churchbells.
Trolls afraid of bears.
Troll bursts when sun shines on him.
Troll's possessions.
Troll's castle.
Golden door to troll's castle.
Troll's animals.
Troll has team of mice.
Troll drives two he-goats.
Troll has bear in stable.
Troll has hares in stable.
Earl king.
Rainbow as ogre.
Jinn.
Where jinn comes from.
Jinn always appears out of strong wind.
Form of jinn.
Jinn can take any human form he chooses.
Jinn unseen by anyone except person(s) he wishes should see him.
Jinn kills whoever tries to occupy house he has chosen to live in.
City infested by jinns deserted.
Sea monster.
Fight with sea (lake) monster.
Water-monster.
Herds of sea monsters on surface of sea.
Lake made dangerous by haunting serpent (dragon, pйist).
Shark-man ogre, eater of children swimming.
Lake monster has power to attract victims.
Clam shell invites man down into sea so he can be eaten.
Monsters of the sea: two whales of human parentage.
Demon-octopus.
Old man of the sea.
Cannibal ogre.
Pisaca.
Spirit-woman in rock devours men and cattle.
Flesh-eating spirits live in trees.
Man-eating ogre fries his victims in kettle of oil.
Bhrat, fierce flesh-eating creatures made by Creator in fit of anger.
Ogre eats only men's hearts.
Ogress devours horses.
Procrustes.
Pine bender.
Cycnus.
Giant robber with club.
Wrestling ogre.
Cliff-ogre.
Pusher-into-hole.
Ogress at a spot along the road takes toll of lives.
Piercer-of-souls: fishes men.
Giant fisherman.
Brother-Dead.
Swinging ogre.
Rectum snakes.
Serpent inside man's body eats all his food.
Pot-tilter.
Sucking monster.
Ogre sucks victim's finger and drinks all his blood.
Path between monsters.
Ogre keeps human prisoners.
Ogress has twenty captive princesses in cave.
Ogre decapitates captive princess before he leaves palace; resuscitates her on
return.
Ogre draws victims under water.
Demon drags beneath the water any person whose shadow falls on surface of water.
Sharp-elbowed women.
Ogre with sharpened leg.
Demon with pointed head, red hair, and black face.
Man with fire moccasins.
Ogress can make cold oven blaze by putting foot into it.
Devastating monster.
Devastating monster which comes out of a hole in evening.
Devastating monster mews like cat.
Devastating demon.
Amphibious monster.
Amphibious tree-destroying monsters.
Evil spirit drinks water supply dry.
Ogre: karumba kills hero by medicines.
Animal ogres.
Monster three-legged ass.
Domestic beast as ogre.
Dog as ogre.
Cat as ogre.
Ferocious sow.
Ogress in goat-form.
Ogress in form of donkey.
Wild beast as ogre.
Wolf as ogre.
Wild boar as ogre.
Bird as ogre.
Cannibal bird as ogre.
Eagle as ogre.
Duck as ogre.
Reptile as ogre.
Snake as ogre.
Demon in the shape of serpent guards forest where treasure tree grows.
Crocodile as ogre.
Lizard as ogre.
Ogre monstrous as to head.
Many-headed ogre.
Two-headed ogre.
Monster with two horns, each having human head on it.
Three-headed ogre.
Six-headed ogre.
Seven-headed ogre.
Ten-headed ogre.
Great head as ogre.
Headless ogre.
Ogre monstrous as to nose.
Noseless ogre.
Pug-nosed ogre.
Ogre monstrous as to mouth.
Ogre with flaming mouth.
Large tusks grown from ogre's mouth.
Diamond-toothed ogre.
Ogre monstrous as to feet.
Ogre with feet reversed.
Ogress can extend leg or arm any distance.
Ogre monstrous as to trunk.
Ogres who have no belly.
Ogre monstrous as to blood.
Blood of five ogres colored yellow, red, white, green, black.
Monstrous ogres--miscellaneous.
Rakshasa.
Rakshasas have power of extending bodies eighty miles.
Rakshasa can be defeated by hero who has rakshasi blood in his veins.
Rakshasa eats many of the domestic animals each night.
Rakshasa eats horse, dog, and child.
Man persecuted by a rakshasa in form of beautiful wench.
Rakshasa hidden in deer's head swallows men.
Rakshasa's mistress with her head severed lying in a pool of blood.
Genie in form of smoke, taking shape with three wings, one on back.
Ogre without a shadow.
Ogre has head and tail of a cat.
Ogre (demon) with long arm (demon hand) which is thrust down chimney (through door, etc.
One-breasted ogress.
One-eyed demon.
Stone giants.
Ogre clothed in rock.
"Rain" as ogre in bull form.
Wonderful birds guarded by monster.
Ogre in shape of small boy.
Tupilac.
Children wander into ogre's house.
Mistake of elder leads two brothers to the home of ogre.
Pursuit of animal leads to ogre's house.
Pursuit of bird leads to ogre's house.
Pursuit of mongoose leads to witch's house.
Ogre in animal form lures victim into captivity.
Man on hunt falls into ogre's (witch's) power.
Lost (marooned) person falls into ogre's power.
Person aids ogre and is captured.
Children lured into ogre's house.
Ogre's gingerbread house lures child.
Ogre disguises voice to lure victim.
Ogress invites boys to live in her house.
Ogre traps victim.
Ogre imprisons victim.
Ogre imprisons victim in drum.
Ball falling into water puts person into ogre's (witch's, water spirit's) power.
Bridal party will not pass over bridge for fear of water-demon.
Ogre draws girl over waterfall.
Ogre carries victim in bag (basket).
Child-stealing demon.
Ogre abducts new-born babe, keeping it captive for seven years.
Child watched throughout night as protection against child-stealing demon.
Following witch's fire into her power.
Youth takes service with ogre.
Falling into ogre's power through fascination with his daughter.
Youth promised to ogre visits ogre's home.
Boy in ogre's house sees many human heads placed in rows: heads smile and weep.
Person as servant in ogre's house.
Hero as giant's (ogre's) goatherd.
Ogre guesses correctly and gets princess.
Ogre tyrannizes over fairyland.
Ogre sets impossible tasks.
Lousing as task set by ogre.
Ogre attacks intruders.
Ogre attacks intruders in house in woods.
Ogre attacks intruders on bridge.
Ugly ogre terrifies women who flee and are drowned.
Ogre kills men and rapes women.
Ogre kills noisy children.
Stupid ogre.
Defeated giant gives his daughter to victor.
Secrets forced from overpowered monster.
Defeated giant becomes friend and helper of victor.
Hero overcomes devastating animal.
Ogress with knife tail defeated by hunter.
Ogre blinded.
One-eyed giant (ogre) blinded (and killed) by arrow.
Ogre killed.
Hero kills trouble-making evil strong men.
Ogre's daughter killed together with her father.
Hero killing an ogress gains her adopted daughter for his wife.
Ogre killed with knife (sword).
Giant killed with magic knife.
Ogre decapitated.
Ogre's head and hands cut off and hung above city gate.
Ogre stoned to death.
Ogre burned to death.
Ogre killed by throwing hot stones (metal) into his throat.
Ogre burned in his own oven.
Ogre's wife (daughter) burned in his own oven.
Grass as fuel for burning ogre.
Jinn falls into cauldron of boiling oil, thinking it is food.
Ogre persuaded to go into hole: buried alive.
Ogre killed by burning external soul.
Ogre killed by burning feather containing his life.
Giant killed by cutting his foot (feet) off.
Giant's (ogre's) arm pulled (cut) off by defender of castle (house).
Backbone of ogre's old mother broken.
Ogre killed by striking.
Ogre killed by striking with club.
Ogre killed by striking with stones.
Boy sends magic spear against six-headed ogre and slays him.
Ogre whipped to death.
Animal kills ogre.
Ogre killed by helpful dogs.
Ogre torn to pieces by birds.
Ogre killed by lightning.
Ogre drowned.
Ogre killed and resuscitated so as to be of help to hero.
Grateful ogre resuscitates his benefactor.
Ogre captured.
Demon must bring treasure to those who have released him.
Ogre trapped in box (cage).
Ogre imprisoned in his own house.
Ogre imprisoned in cave.
Ogre caught in noose and killed.
Ogre captured while transformed to animal.
Ogre tied to rock.
Hero pegs ogress to boulder.
Ogresses caught in flood of lava.
Ogre captured with decoy smeared with tar.
Ogre captured by animal.
Ogre captured by tortoise.
Holy men keep devils under control.
Ogre killed through other tricks.
Ogre's wife killed through other tricks.
Faithful hound kills ogre's wife.
Man pretends to cut toenails of cannibal woman: kills her.
Ogress lured in bridal bed and killed.
Ogress tricked into falling into boiling spring.
Ogre killed with his own iron bar.
Cliff ogre thrown as food to his children.
Ogre killed by blades falling in his food.
Giant ogre tricked into running round a tree the branches of which catch the strokes of his iron bar, until he falls down dead.
Ogre made drunk and overcome.
Ogre persuaded to drink pond dry bursts.
Ogre drinks till he bursts--turns into fog.
Ogre kills self when he sees crumbs lying on his belly.
Ogre deceived into stabbing himself.
Ogre deceived into hanging himself.
Sea people give the ogre brandy (tar).
Witch wishes to have as pretty teeth as man: drinks boiling oil.
Ogre deceived by feigned ignorance of hero.
Giant killed by his own bucket of death water; captive princess tells him to wash.
Stupid ogre duped into cutting off his own buttocks.
Help from ogre's wife (mistress).
Giant overcome and slain when his wife binds his hair to posts.
Help from ogre's daughter (or son).
Help from ogre's mother.
Help from ogre's grandmother.
Help from old woman in ogre's house.
Ogre's maidservant as helper.
Hero hidden and ogre deceived by his wife (daughter) when he says that he smells human blood.
Ogre tells wife how people may evade his power.
Captive woman in ogre's house helps hero.
Ogre defeated with divine help.
Ogre defeated with help of goddess.
Rescue from ogre by relative.
Rescue of sister from ogre by brother.
Rescue of sister from ogre by another sister.
Rescue of children from ogre by brother.
Rescue of children from giant (ogre) by hero (skillful companions).
One brother rescues another from ogre.
One foster brother rescues another from ogre.
Cannibal is killed by his wife's relatives.
Rescue from ogre by helpful animals.
Rescue from ogre by means of singing.
Recognition of captive's voice brings about rescue from ogre.
Ogre tricked into carrying his prisoners home in bag on his own back.
Oaths (abusive speeches) drive ogres away.
Ogre overawed by trick.
Ogre deceived by throwing burning oil instead of spittle on him.
Ogre deceived by showing sharp knife or sword for nose or tongue.
Ogres chased away by fire.
Giants appeased by feeding them.
Demons bribed with food.
Demons coerced by tabus of druids.
Ogre polluting the wells driven away by shooting.
Ogre tortured by not being allowed to sleep.
Stealing from ogre for revenge.
Stealing from ogre to help a friendly king.
Stealing from ogre as task.
The one eye of the three giants stolen.
Ogre's charm stolen.
Killing of ogre's cattle, sheep, etc. brings on ogre's anger.
Ogre so old that his eyelids must be propped up.
Thousand year old ogre.
Ogre who cannot endure daylight.
North as abode of evil spirits.
Genie sleeps with eyes open.
Ogre revives after limbs are severed.
Monster's returning head.
Ogres powerless after cockcrow.
Ogres live in trees.
Ogre powerless to cross stream.
Ogress lives in water.
Ogre teaches smith how to transform sand in his smithy.
Ogre sings constantly, usually own name.
Ogre attracts attention by whistling.
Ogre's ashes cast on stream cause rapids to stop.
Ogre's secret overheard.
Ogre's secret overheard from tree.
Ogre's secret overheard by masking as bird.
Vanquished ogre grants hero's three wishes.
Wild man released from captivity aids hero.
Hero in service of wild man.
Ogre's wife jealous of him.
Ogres harnessed to plow.
Ogre carrying mortar and pestle.
Ogress attracted by scent of sugar cane ravages city.
Ogre gives riddle on pain of death.
Large price exacted for curing ogre after wounding him.
Cannibal offers wealth to save his life.
Bodies of victims in front of ogre's house.
Giants keep corpses on hand to eat.
Widow(s) of ogre's victims seen at ogre's house.
Maimed victims seen at ogre's house.
Lost husband's bones found among cannibals.
Recognition through story-telling.
Recognition by telling life history.
Recognition at inn (hospital, etc.) where all must tell their life histories.
Recognition: life story painted on wall.
Recognition by life history sung.
Recognition by tracing ancestry.
Recognition by song (music).
Missing female poet discovered through test of poetic ability.
Recognition by verse of song.
Recognition by matching a couplet together.
Recognition by overheard conversation (usually with animals or objects).
Recognition by overheard conversation with animal.
Recognition by overheard conversation with horse.
Recognition by overheard conversation with dog.
Recognition by overheard conversation with cow.
Recognition by overheard conversation with objects.
Recognition by overheard conversation with bridge.
Recognition by overheard conversation with stone.
Recognition by overheard conversation with plant.
Recognition by overheard conversation with churchdoor.
Recognition by overheard conversation with cups (or other utensils).
Recognition by overheard conversation with flax.
Recognition by overheard conversation with stove.
Recognition from overheard conversation of two sons.
Recognition from overheard conversation with flower-woman.
Recognition by observing emotional reactions of another to object of common experience.
Recognition by seeing husband shed tears on sight of bird (main character in a former experience common to both husband and wife).
Recognition by tears at recital of own exploits.
Identity tested by account of common experiences.
Identity tested by demanding that person say again what he said on former occasion.
Recognition by recalling common experiences.
Recognition by describing or producing object of common knowledge.
Recognition by brother king of lost brother brought about by model of their father's palace which lost brother builds of clay.
Recognition by wounds on lip and finger received at common adventure.
Recognition of brothers brought about by bouquet of flowers tied as father's gardener used to do.
Recognition by describing unique bed.
Recognition by reminders of what has been said.
Recognition by password.
Recognition through common knowledge--miscellaneous.
Recognition by ability to identify property.
Recognition of reincarnated person by ability to identify former weapons.
Recognition by answer to conundrum (known only to two persons).
Recognition through picture.
Recognition through image.
Recognition from dream.
Recognition by unique ability.
Recognition by unique ability to dislodge sword.
Recognition by unique ability to bend bow.
Recognition by unique ability to swing spear.
Only one man can lift small pot from ground.
Recognition by unique ability to cut (carve) tree, etc.
Recognition by unique ability to break iron apple with first stone cast.
Recognition by unique ability to perform magic act.
Recognition by ability to shed pearls for tears.
Only one man is able to read magic book.
Recognition by unique ability to shoot, swim, and drink.
Recognition by unique ability to handle easily a heavy stone.
Recognition by unique ability to play chess.
Recognition by unique ability to read inscription.
Only one man is able to pluck fruits from tree.
Bridegroom alone able to pluck flower from bride's grave.
Recognition by extraordinary prowess.
Recognition by unique manner of performing an act.
Recognition by unique manner of playing lute.
Recognition by unique manner of playing harp.
Recognition by unique manner of playing flute.
Recognition by unique cookery.
Recognition by unique needle-work.
Recognition of false bride by inability to finish true bride's weaving.
Recognition by embroidery.
Recognition by unique manner of carving chips.
Recognition by ogam carving on withe (rod, tree).
Recognition by manner of throwing cakes of different weights into faces of old uncles.
Recognition by exact fitting of clothes.
Slipper test.
Recognition by shoes with which the father had once beaten his son.
Garment fits only true king.
Crown fits only legitimate successor to throne.
Person's rank betrayed by habitual conversation.
Disguised king (noble) recognized by habitual speech.
Impostor of low origin recognized by habitual speech.
Tailor married to princess betrays trade by calling for needle and thread.
Peasant boy masking as prince betrays self by his answers.
Recognition of maidservant substitute bride by her habitual conversation.
Weaver married to princess betrays trade by talking in his sleep.
Weaver married to princess betrays his identity when he unconsciously waves his hands as though he were weaving and asks for his
shuttle.
Substitution of low-caste boy for promised child detected when he prefers long road to short one through jungle (swimming instead of
ferry, etc.) Slave recognized by his conversation, habits, and
character.
Recognition of royalty by personal characteristics or traits.
Princess on the pea.
High-spitting the test of a chief.
Test of king (pope): his candle lights itself.
Flame issuing from mouth as sign of royalty.
Unknown prince shows his kingly qualities in dealing with his playmates.
Unknown prince reared by fisher spends money on princely tastes.
Prophecy for newborn princesses: the one who takes gold in the mouth will be married to a prince; the one who takes hawkweed, to a
peasant.
Task: to ride horse whereby one becomes king.
Test of royalty: ability to sow, reap, and winnow rice in one day.
King recognized by unique ability to occupy certain seat (Siege perilous).
Chariot tilts under anyone who is not entitled to throne.
Chief in disguise carries bundle so large that rank is recognized.
Recognition by perfume.
Recognition of deity.
God recognized by his supernatural powers.
Milk gushes forth from cows when they sit under tree inhabited by deity.
Test of a god: when his image is bound it frees itself.
God in disguise recognized by tokens on his feet and hands.
Girl sleeping naked awakened: is she a goddess? Cannibal recognized by cloud of dust raised.
Cannibal nature of woman recognized when she devours dead buffalo raw.
Demon recognized by corpse it occupies turning to worm when stake is driven through it.
Animal in human form recognized.
Fox (in man's form) cries out like a fox in his sleep.
Fox (in man's form) betrays identity when he procures fox-food for human wife.
Recognition through personal peculiarities--miscellaneous.
Unique scent of their rice betrays abandoned children.
Recognition by scar.
Recognition by birthmark.
Recognition through branding.
Recognition through branding with hoof-marks.
Sacred animals branded by conjurer.
Recognition by tatoo.
Recognition by wound.
Recognition by hole burned in hand when woman removes glove.
Mutilation of children's bodies for identification.
Recognition by missing member.
Recognition of resuscitated person by missing member.
Recognition by broken tooth.
Recognition by missing finger.
Severed finger as sign of crime.
Recognition of murdered person by severed fingernail.
Recognition by missing toe.
Recognition by description of woman with missing hands.
Recognition by artificial hands.
Tell-tale hand-mark.
Disguised mistress identified by chalk marks left on back by lover.
Clandestine lover identified by scratches left on face by lady.
Recognition by ornaments under skin.
Recognition of twins by golden chain under their skin.
Recognition of disenchanted person by ornaments under his skin.
Recognition by means of ring enclosed in wound.
Recognition by grain of gold under skin.
Recognition of transformed person (animal).
Recognition of man transformed to horse.
Recognition of person transformed to animal.
Person transformed to animal recognized by his eyes.
Person transformed to animal recognized by ability to read.
Horse recognizes kol transformed to look like his master and throws him off.
Marvelous horse identified by prince though in form of miserable worn-out one.
Recognition of other transformed persons.
Woman transformed to flower is recognized by the absence of dew on petals.
Recognition of disenchanted person by physical attributes.
Recognition of disenchanted person by thread in his teeth.
Werwolf killed and recognized by man's clothes under the wolf's skin or rosary on the neck.
Person disenchanted from animal "unable to hide his tail." Person disenchanted from animal unable to eat after manner
of men.
Marks of royalty.
Star on forehead as sign of royalty.
Moon on forehead and stars in palm of hand as sign of royalty.
Gold (silver) hairs as sign of royalty.
Golden body of boy as sign of royalty.
Pearls from hair as sign of royalty.
Roses from lips as sign of royalty.
Cross between shoulders as sign of royalty (nobility).
Bright eyes as sign of royalty (nobility).
Luminous face as sign of royalty.
Gold tint as sign of royalty.
Child born with chain around neck: sign of royalty.
Girl born with costly jewels: sign of royalty.
Prince born with bow of gold and string of silver.
Tears of blood: sign of royalty.
Red teeth as sign of royalty.
Marvel as sign of royalty.
Tree bows before prince.
Water stands still before prince.
Frogs croak at prince's command.
Chariot horses spring at anyone who is not entitled to throne.
Two blocks of stone that move apart to allow passage of chariot of true king.
Stone screams under feet of legitimate king.
Arrows turn aside for prince (king).
Gold in stool as sign of royalty.
Identification by a hair.
Identification by hair found floating on water.
Identification by hair dropped by bird.
Recognition by hair found in a fish which has swallowed it.
Recognition by golden hair.
Identification by wolf's hair.
Recognition by missing hair.
Recognition of murderers by their short hair.
Recognition by feather.
Youth shoots raven and takes feather to raven's sister as token.
Identification by feather taken from hero when he was transformed to bird.
Recognition by physical attributes--miscellaneous.
Troll's daughter after being cooked in kettle recognized by golden fingernail.
Identification of man by his little toe.
Recognition by voice.
Recognition by smile.
Identification of man by his skull.
Recognition by large breasts that woman in bed is not husband's wife.
Recognition of monk by his large organ.
Identity established because one of man's teeth is blue.
True redeemers to be recognized by tokens.
Clandestine lover recognized by tokens.
Hero lies by sleeping girl and leaves identification token with her.
Hero takes token from sleeping princess.
Clandestine visit of princess to hero betrayed by token.
Clandestine visit of lover to queen betrayed by token.
Identifying tokens sent with messenger.
Tokens sent to jailor as warrant of king's authority.
Marriage tokens identifying lover.
Tokens between lovers.
Ring sent from husband to wife as token that he has been baptized, and that she should also be.
Token sent as warning.
Token sent with youth to relatives, that they may take care of him.
Rescue tokens.
Tokens of exploits.
Branches broken from tree to prove journey.
Cup taken as proof that one has been present at feast.
Flail substantiates story of witnessing threshing in heaven.
Stolen ring as proof of daring theft.
Captive sends token of safety.
Inscribed name on article as token of ownership.
Saber with king's name inscribed on it.
Articles of clothing with name embroidered on them taken as tokens.
Ring with names inscribed on it.
Handkerchief with name on it.
Garlands (flowers) as token.
Recognition by tokens left as trail.
Recognition through precious metal.
Recognition through gold found in eagle's nest.
Recognition by gold wrapped in mantle.
Identification by producing three golden apples.
Identification by necklace.
Identification by jewel.
Recognition by smell of jewels worn about neck.
Identification by ring.
Recognition of wife's ring in friend's possession informs husband of her unfaithfulness.
Identification by ring baked in cake.
Identification by ring baked in bread.
Identification by ring dropped in pitcher of wine.
Identification by ring dropped in glass (cup) of wine.
Identification through broken ring.
Recognition through arm-ring.
Recognition by ring springing off finger.
Recognition by medallion (plaque).
Identification through ring concealed in garland.
Recognition through gold ring with owner's name engraved on it.
Recognition by earrings.
Recognition by bracelet.
Identification by amulet.
Identification by broken weapon.
Identification by matching weapon with wound.
Identification by indenture.
Identification by fitting together two pieces of parchment.
Pieces taken from flags serve to identify.
Parts of slain animals as token of slaying.
Dragon-tongue proof.
False dragon-head proof.
Tongue as proof that man has been murdered.
Tongue of slain giant as proof of slaying.
Arm of monster kept as token of innocence of dog.
Head of monster as token (proof) of slaying.
Monster's beard as proof of visit.
Ears, fingers and noses of demons cut off as proof of killing them.
Recognition of tiger-slayer by tips of ears, nose, and tail of tiger.
Teeth and fingernails of slain cyclops taken as proof.
Beak and claws of slain monster as proof of slaying.
Abandoned son shows claws and tail of tiger to which his parents have exposed him.
Identification between lovers by matching claw and leg of dragon.
Sex organs of enemy as proof of slaying.
Identification by severed limbs.
Identification by severed hand.
Severed head as proof of killing.
Identification by garment.
Identification by royal garments.
Identification by feather cloak.
Identification by scarf.
Identification by handkerchief.
Identification by glove.
Identification by veil.
Identification by girdle.
Identification by cut garment.
Identification by shred of garment of rescued princess used as bandage for wound.
Identification by cloth or clothing--miscellaneous.
A piece of cloth on one's back as a guarantee against his being eaten on the way.
Needle left in garment of husband by abducted wife as sign.
Identification by cup.
Identification by weapons.
Identification by sword.
Identification by spear.
Identification by war-club.
Recognition by dart.
Identification by coat of arms.
Identification by axe.
Recognition by knife.
Recognition by calabash.
Recognition through books.
Leaf (chip) sent down stream as a warning to one below.
Recognition by trimmed leaf thrown from tree hiding place.
Milk poured into stream as signal.
Recognition by token--mouth-harp left by bed.
Identification by magic hand.
Recognition by tobacco-pipe.
Attention drawn and recognition follows.
Attention drawn by magic objects: recognition follows.
Attention drawn by playing marbles with remarkable jewel.
Attention drawn by gold and silver decorated mouse: as princess turns after it, suitor recognizes her.
Recognition by ability to perform marvels.
Attention drawn by helpful animal's theft of food from wedding table; recognition follows.
Recognition when parents come to son (priest, pope) to be confessed.
Recognition by cup in sack: alleged stolen goods.
Attention attracted by hints dropped by heroine as menial: recognition follows.
Heroine in menial disguise discovered in her beautiful clothes: recognition follows.
Enchanted heroine seen temporarily disenchanted: recognition follows.
Recognition because of imperfection of disguise.
Hero's power to transform girl to carnation brings about recognition.
Husband attracted by wife's power of healing: recognition follows.
Abandoned child joins parents in game: recognition follows.
Abandoned child recognized in game.
Combat of unknown brothers brings about recognition.
Hero is served at table by his unknown son: recognition of his wife follows.
Geese tell of beauty of their mistress and bring about recognition.
Disguised hero's golden hair discovered by spying princess.
Tears fall on person below and indicate presence of those above (on cliff, tree, etc.).
Recognition by tear falling from tree where girl has been abandoned.
Seller of trinkets tells of heroine's address of son as "tiger's son" and brings about recognition of true bride.
Recognition through accidental encounter.
Poor people given alms: one of them recognized.
Woman entertains every traveler in the hope of finding her husband.
Impoverished husband in service of wife recognized.
Abandoned wife recognized among workers.
Outcast wife (children) builds castle identical with king's, invites him, and is recognized.
Recognition of abandoned child when parent comes to him for relief from famine.
Abandoned queen invites all to forest, gives appropriate food to her persecutors, and is recognized.
King finds note with children in casket floated down river identifying them as his.
Recognition of transformed person among identical companions.
Recognition of person among identical companions.
Recognition of disguised princess by bee lighting on her.
Insect points out deity by settling where he is.
King selected by having a cricket light on his head.
Recognition of disguised princess by bull.
Recognition of own cow in herd of twenty thousand.
Father recognizes son after having thrown him in oven.
Animal (object) indicates election of ruler.
King selected by elephant's bowing to him.
Elephant raises girl three times to be king's wife.
Bird indicates election of king (pope).
Horse indicates election of emperor.
Man before whom riderless car stops chosen king.
Man before whom oxen stop chosen king.
Stone of destiny (Lia Fбil).
Pope selected by chair moving toward candidate.
Animal will serve only certain man.
Horse will permit only certain man to ride him.
Disguised man recognized by dog.
Chieftain recognized by faithful swineherd.
Chieftain recognized by former captive.
Animal first to recognize his returned master.
Recognition by "force of nature".
Recognition of son by gushing up of milk in mother's breasts.
Child mystically recognizes woman as his mother.
Sick prince's pulse beats violently when his loved one passes by.
Fire issues spontaneously from fireless hearth when man approaches.
Ghost of unknown child passes over heads of parents and bursts in a spray of blood.
Recognition by unmasking.
Beating brings about outcry and recognition.
Identification by nurse.
Recognition by miraculous sight of seer (saint).
Hero spits twice at his wife as sign of recognition.
Recognition by servant: saves master from death.
Princess appears before crane (who had demanded her in marriage) and is recognized by him despite loathly disguise.
Recognition by supernatural manifestation.
Recognition of man acceptable to God: knife leaps into his hand.
Guilt or innocence of souls tested by bridge.
Criminal detected by having child hand knife to him.
Magic manifestation at execution proves innocence.
Sword magically changed to wood when executioner is to decapitate innocent person.
Gallows rope breaks when innocent person is hanged.
Grass refuses to grow: indication of innocence of man hanged there.
Ineradicable handprint as indication of innocence.
Indications of innocence.
Garden filled with flowers on innocent girl's approach.
Voice from heaven testifies to innocence of accused.
Church door opens magically, as proof of priest's innocence.
Decision made by contest.
Decision of victory by single combat between army leaders.
Decision by single combat or holmgang of who is to marry girl.
Holmgang to decide owner of gold.
Holmgang to decide who is to be king.
Trial by combat.
Vindication by champion.
Judicial combat interrupted by friends of loser.
Wrestling to test legitimacy of son.
Ordeal by fire.
Ordeal by burning coal.
Ordeal: carrying live coals in robe or cloak without harm to garment or bearer.
Sanctity of person tested by survival in burning house.
Sanctity of books tested by throwing them into fire.
Ordeal by hot iron.
Ordeal: virgin to pull on hot iron and name men.
Ordeal by red-hot iron applied by druids.
Ordeal by burning oil.
Ordeal by boiling water.
Ordeal by spitting.
Ordeal by water.
Ordeal by water applied by druids.
Legitimacy of children tested by dipping them in river.
Ordeal by holy water.
Guilt or innocence shown by effect of enchanted water.
Sanctity of books tested by throwing them into water.
Ordeal by poison.
Ordeal by crocodiles (snakes).
Ordeal by kissing poisonous serpents.
Ordeal by rope-walking.
Ordeal: walking on ladder of knives.
Ordeal: walking on eggs.
Ordeal by balance.
Ordeal: carrying murdered man's blood.
Ordeal by creeping under a sod partially detached from the earth without its falling down.
Ordeal by bread and cheese.
Ordeal: taking stone out of bucket.
Ordeal: names of suspected persons are placed in chalice on altar: the one to whom the lot falls is guilty.
Scales test: weighing witch against Bible.
Ordeal: cock under pot crows when guilty person touches pot.
Ordeal by exposure.
Worn-out shoes as proof of long journey.
Credential tests: proof that messenger comes from certain person.
Riding speckled horse as credential test.
Nature fruitless if false judgment is passed.
Person magically disfigured when he speaks falsely.
Casting lots as truth test.
Incantation which when recited over certain "lots" causes them to distinguish between guilt and innocence.
Test of death: to see whether person is dead or feigning.
Sham-dead person tested by hot lead poured on hand.
Sham dead tested by stinging insects down back.
Crocodile masking as dead obeys suggestion that he make flesh quiver.
Sham dead tested by pricking.
Test of death by putting burning wood in the mouth of fallen warriors.
Sham dead detected by batting eyes.
Test of truth by magic object.
Bocca della Veritа.
Oath of truth before magic lion.
Stone of truth.
Stone cannot be moved by one who speaks falsehood.
Magic stone detects perjury: sheds water.
Stone on which saint was born pours forth water when perjury is committed under it.
Other magic object tests truth.
Tree tests perjury.
Thief detected by psalter and key.
Thief detected by sieve and shears.
Stick with money in it breaks and betrays thief who swears his innocence.
Oath taken before image.
Chain around neck tests truth.
Magic object cast on water sinks if person is guilty.
Magic object clings to hand of guilty person.
Magic spring detects perjury: disfigures perjurer.
Magic spring detects parricide and idolatry.
Well rises for sheep only for rightful owner.
False judgment by judge causes fruit to fall.
Pig that can be boiled only after four true stories are told.
Truth-testing vessel.
Magic cup as test of truth and falsehood.
Calumniated princess' dead body fails to rot; accuser repudiated.
Act of truth.
Test: telling true stories.
Placing hand on genitals as test of truth.
Amount of blood in spittle as test of complete subjection.
If oath is false, fruit will fall.
Oath taken on boy's head: boy to die if false.
Act of truth: boy falls dead though what has been said is the truth; when lie is told he is resuscitated.
Women swear falsely by their husbands and children, who immediately fall dead.
Act of truth: island sinks into sea, after hanging of man who has appealed to God to cause the phenomenon as indication of his innocence.
Act of truth: cursed church clock never runs correctly.
Oaths before gods as test of truth.
Test: which of twins is elder.
Test of innocence: apple and gold offered.
Test of child's innocence: onyx stone and coal of fire offered.
Holiness of saint tested: asked to perform miracles.
Grade of holiness tested: one whose candle burns down first.
Gold in the Bible.
Test of sin.
Exposure in boat as test of sin.
Footsteps in manure (dust) as proof that dead man has walked.
Excessive demands to prevent marriage.
Task: to win ogress' daughter for a bride.
Tests for hero, husband of supernatural (divine) wife.
Brother unwittingly qualifies as bridegroom of sister in test.
Inspection test for suitors.
Physical and mental requirements for suitors.
Successful suitor to be without blotches.
Successful suitor must have gold teeth.
Suitors chosen with feet as only part seen.
Successful suitor must have whitest hands.
Successful suitor must have the prettiest hands; not whitest, but dark with scars and gold rings.
Successful suitor must have cheeks like blood, skin like snow and hair like a raven.
Suitor test: correct wearing of clothes.
Suitor test: to be able to go through a wall.
Bridegroom-to-be has to have three pecks, three quarts of gold and an animal with a horn on his head pointing to the sky, and a large red
hair.
Suitor test: obedience and humility before bride.
Princess will marry whoever will give her anything she wishes for a month.
Fairy will marry king only if he will either cut off son's head or give up fasting on eleventh day.
Suitor's sincerity tested.
Suitor's sincerity tested by reporting girl's death.
Suitor's sincerity tested by seven years' banishment.
Suitor test: to whom the princess turns.
Suitor test: to make the princess fall in love with him.
Suitor contest: bride offered to suitor giving the token of the greater love.
Suitor test: apple thrown indicates princess's choice.
Orange (lemon) thrown to indicate princess's choice.
Flowers thrown to indicate princess's choice.
Ball (goblet) thrown indicates princess's choice.
Suitor test: garland thrown indicates girl's choice.
Expressing love by throwing little stones.
Long term of service imposed on suitor.
Seven years of service imposed on suitor.
Two years of silence imposed on suitor.
Gardener's son to marry princess if he remains in prison twelve years.
Test of suitor's love and endurance by constant postponing.
Suitor preferred who will pay enormous sum for bride.
Suitor test: hiding from princess.
Suitor test: finding princess.
Suitor test: finding object hidden by princess.
Suitor test: to get to imprisoned princess in a year's time.
Suitor test: bringing leg that fits into dragon claw left by the beloved of the princess.
Suitor test: bringing maiden's lost shoe.
Suitor test: learning girl's name.
Suitor test: choosing princess from others identically clad.
Suitor test: choosing sweetheart's sedan chair from thirty others like it.
Suitor test: skill.
Suitor test: aptness in handicrafts.
Suitor test: constructing automatic peacock.
Suitor test: skill in archery.
Suitor test: eating a pomegranate without letting a single seed fall.
Suitor test: skill in hunt.
Suitor test: skill in fishing.
Suitor test: cleverness and learning.
Suitor test: power of endurance.
Suitor test: resisting intoxication after much drinking.
Suitor test: being swung by mustache without shedding tears.
Suitor test: enduring blow from spear.
Suitor test: standing naked in river through a winter night.
Suitor test: bathing in boiling water.
Princess to be married to man who withstands twelve years' fight.
Suitor contests: bride offered as prize.
Suitor contest: difficult riding.
Suitor contest: riding up glass mountain.
Suitor contest: riding to fourth story of tower.
Suitor contest: jumping horse over palace.
Suitor contest: riding up mast (spear).
Suitor test: jumping over high hedge.
Suitor contest: riding across pit.
Suitor contest: riding through fire.
Suitor contest: jumping river on horseback.
Suitor contest: jumping ditches and hedges of spears.
Contest in reaping: best reaper to get beautiful girl as wife.
Suitor contest: tournament.
Suitor contest: success in battle.
Suitor contest: bride offered to the one distinguishing himself most in battle.
Suitor contest: prize to one whose staff blooms.
Suitor contest: shooting.
Suitors contest with bride's father in shooting.
Suitor contest: bending bow of woman's absent husband.
Suitor contest: race.
Loser in bride-race must die.
Race with princess for her hand.
Apple thrown in race with bride.
Hero's confederate slows down princess with his breath.
Suitor contest: race with bride's father.
Suitor test: winning horse-race three times.
Suitor test: boat race.
Suitor contest: wrestling.
Suitor contest: wrestling with bride.
Princess wins wrestling match with suitor by revealing her breast.
Suitor contest: aiming with missile.
Suitor contest: splitting antlers.
Suitor contest: trapping.
Suitor contest: carrying one hundred jugs of water from sea to castle in one day.
Princess given to the one confessing all his treachery.
Suitor contest: splitting block of wood.
Suitor contest: cheating.
Suitor contest: trial of strength.
Suitor contest: animal fight.
Suitor contest: cockfight.
Suitor contest: bullfight.
Suitor contest: throwing ball up to princess.
Suitor contest: throwing iron ball.
Suitor contest: eating one hundred carcasses at a sitting.
Suitor in contest with bride or member of her family.
Suitor in contest with bride.
Suitor test: duel with bride.
Suitor test: to defeat bride in game.
Suitor test: to defeat bride at dice.
Suitor test: to defeat bride in harping.
Suitor test: tournament with bride.
Shooting contest with bride-to-be.
Suitor contest with brother-in-law.
Suitor test: duel with father-in-law.
Groom and his army have to fight bride's army.
Girl demands suitor's life (or mutilation).
Lover has head cut off at girl's desire.
Suitor test: tribute of his severed hands.
Tasks assigned suitors.
Bride helps suitor perform his tasks.
Otherworld mistress instructs hero how to perform tasks (imposed by her mother).
Bride's parents (supernatural) help suitor win in suitor contests.
Girl assigns tasks to her suitors.
Suitor task: to study philosophy for five years.
Suitor task: prince to learn a trade.
Devil as suitor assigned tasks.
Suitor tasks announced by inscription on statue.
Goddess assigns task to her mortal suitor.
Suitor task: avenging bride's father's death before marriage.
Suitor task: avenging bride's former fiance before marriage.
Suitor task: cutting open magic gourd.
Suitor task: killing ferocious animal.
Suitor task: to kill dragon to whom the princess is to be sacrificed.
Suitor task: killing lion guarding girl.
Suitor task: to slay thieving boar.
Suitor task: to kill treasure-guarding snake lying around the princess's chamber.
Task: hero's servant must kill giant pig.
Suitor task: killing tiger demons.
Suitor task: to kill other monsters.
Suitor task: to defeat enemies.
Suitor task: to bring enemy's head.
Suitor task: to overcome robbers.
Suitor task: to kill all earlier suitors.
Suitor task: to kill (defeat) unwelcome suitor.
Suitor task: to bring back food as a marriage present.
Suitor task: making weather calm.
Suitor task: controlling violent tide.
Suitors assigned quests.
Prospective father-in-law requires that suitor for his daughter's hand visit foreign country
Suitor required to catch wild animals.
Suitor test: faithfulness.
Suitor test: keeping princess's secret.
Suitor test: making princess laugh.
Princess brought to laughter by people sticking together.
Princess brought to laughter by small animals.
Princess brought to laughter by foolish actions of hero.
Princess brought to laughter by indecent show made in quarrel with old woman at well.
Suitor test: outwitting princess.
Suitor test: forcing princess to say, "That is a lie." Suitor test: bringing dumb princess to speak.
Princess to marry man who can make her speak to him in all watches of the night.
Dumb princess brought to speak by shepherd who insults her.
Silent princess gives right answer when talking monkey is given wrong one by suitor-prince.
Suitor test: entering princess's chamber.
Princess to marry man who can give her correct account of what happened in her bedchamber.
Suitor test: overcoming princess in strength.
Suitor test: lifting strong princess's giant weapon.
Suitor test: riding strong princess's horse.
Princess given to man who can heal her.
Maiden queen promises herself to the man who heals her husband and kills his bewitcher.
Suitor test: to consort with princess without sleeping.
Suitor test: to live on small amount of food.
Suitor test: to live on as much food as can be piled on a leaf.
Suitor test: to make garden bloom in winter.
Suitor test: to plunge into a stream.
Suitor test: finding an extraordinary object.
Who will find the most marvelous thing? Suitor test: finding a cow with silver horns.
Suitor test: finding a hog with silver bristles.
Suitor test: bringing marvelous tree.
Suitor test: obtaining flowers.
Suitor test: obtaining for bride a necklace like her mother's.
Suitor test: to get wedding dress so fine that it will go through ring.
Other suitor tests.
Suitor test: building causeway.
Suitor test: clearing land.
Ring (jewel) bride test.
Bride chosen from girls assembled at feast.
Deceased wife marriage test.
Bride test: wearing deceased wife's clothes.
Bride test: wearing deceased wife's ring.
Bride test: size of feet.
Bride test: performance of tasks.
Bride contest: game.
Game of hide and seek with seven princesses to determine which is to be hero's wife.
Man marries girl bringing his clothes soonest.
Bride test: procuring food plants in shortest time.
Bride test: thrift.
Bride test: making dress from wasted flax.
Bride test: thrifty cutting of cheese.
Bride test: thrifty peeling of apple.
Bride test: thrifty scraping of bread tray.
Bride test: industry.
Bride test: key in flax reveals laziness.
Bride test: domestic skill.
Bride test: bread-making.
Bride test: bread-making--dough under fingernails.
Bride test: cooking griddle cakes.
Bride test: cloth-working.
Bride test: spinning--girl cannot use spinning-wheel.
Bride test: weaving magic cloth, sewing magic shirt.
Bride test: sewing a shirt for bridegroom's father.
Bride test: skillful sweeping.
Bride test: cooking.
Bride test: ale brewing.
Bride test: cutting up a monster fish with scaly hide.
Bride test: kindness.
Suitor chooses kindly girl.
Bride test: kindness--father-in-law disguised as beggar.
Wealthy (handsome) suitor disguised as beggar to test bride's kindness.
Prince disguised as a madman to test bride's character.
Bride test: greediness.
Bride test: obedience.
Bride test: to allow oneself to be beaten with shoe.
Bride test: constancy.
Bride's constancy tested by seven year's mourning over supposed dead lover.
Bride test: wisdom (cleverness).
Magic object points out unchaste woman.
Magic stone as chastity test.
Stone breaks when unchaste woman looks at it.
Magic tree as chastity test.
Magic plant as chastity test.
Magic drinking horn (cup) as chastity test.
Drinking bitter water as chastity test.
Magic cup as chastity test: sticks to hands of adulterer.
Magic pin as chastity test.
Magic chair as chastity test.
Mantle as chastity test.
Magic bridge as chastity test.
Magic statue as chastity test.
Magic idol as chastity test.
Magic bed and pillows as chastity test.
Magic spring as chastity test.
Unchaste woman dips arm into the water: skin boiled away.
Fountains as chastity tests.
Magic harp as chastity test.
Magic lamp as chastity test.
Apple as chastity test.
Magic mirror as chastity index.
Catching salmon as proof of virginity.
Swan as chastity test.
Dust of Tabernacle as chastity test.
Chastity tested by ordeal.
Chastity ordeal: passing under magic rod.
Chastity ordeal: holding shaven and greased tail of bull.
Chastity ordeal: feather over door; if girl who enters blushes she is not a virgin.
Chastity ordeal: passing through fire.
Chastity ordeal: holding hot iron.
Chastity ordeal: oath on boiling oil.
Chastity ordeal: poisonous snake around girl's neck.
Chastity ordeal: drawing lover out of wall with single thread rope.
Chastity ordeal: jumping.
Chastity ordeal: jumping over magic thread.
Chastity ordeal: jumping over pit.
Special powers of chaste woman.
Special power of chaste woman: blowing out candle with one puff and relighting it with another.
Special power of chaste woman: making ball of water.
Special power of chaste woman: carrying water in sieve.
Special power of chaste woman: raising fallen elephant.
Chastity test: throwing certain number on dice.
If princess is chaste her weight will be only that of five flowers; if not, normal.
Tests for true lover.
Valley from which no false lover can escape until it has been entered by a true lover.
Tests for true husbands.
Crown exposes infidelity of husbands.
Tests for cuckolds.
Cuckold's knife cannot carve boar's head.
Horns grow on cuckold.
Chastity tests of holy men and monks.
Clothing (cloth) as chastity index.
Shirt as chastity index.
Handkerchief as chastity index.
Veil as chastity index.
Flower as chastity index.
Rose as chastity index.
Three roses fall as sign of unfaithfulness.
Lily as chastity index.
Lotus flower as chastity index.
Blooming staff as chastity index.
Ornament as chastity index.
Ring as chastity index.
Fruit as chastity index.
Apple as chastity index: shines as long as woman is chaste.
Weapon as chastity index.
Sword as chastity index: will not spot while woman is faithful.
Chastity index--miscellaneous.
Picture as chastity index: indicates by its color.
Painting on wife's stomach as chastity index.
Drinking-tube as chastity index: retains taste of another's lips.
Talking private parts betray unchastity.
Disguise to test bride's chastity.
Chastity test: king weighs princess against a flower.
Test of wife's patience.
The clever wife in disguise wins a second wife for her husband.
Test of wife's endurance.
Feigned death to test wife's faithfulness.
Feigned absence to test wife's faithfulness.
Other tests of wife's love or faithfulness.
Feigned illness to test wife's love.
Wife's faithfulness tested by proposal in another's name.
Test of wife's ability to keep secret.
Test of wife's ability to keep secret: the buried sheep's head.
Test of wife's obedience.
Test of wife's obedience: finger in hole.
Test of wife's obedience: the one command.
Test of wife's obedience: not to eat leeks.
Man leaving home warns wife not to wash face in puddle in dunghill.
Test of wife's obedience: decorating house.
Complacent wife agrees with all of husband's absurd statements.
Husband tests false wife by sleeping on her hair.
Wife tests--miscellaneous motifs.
Widow prepared for suttee can lift by little finger heavy stone by temple.
Infant picks out his unknown father.
Infant indicates his unknown father by handing him an apple.
Baby picks out his disguised father from a crowd by handing him a bow.
Infant picks out his unknown mother.
Animals compete as messenger to call father of new-born child.
Test of unknown father: gold on street.
Test of paternity.
Test of paternity: adhesion of blood.
Test of paternity: shooting at father's corpse.
Test of mother's and father's love for children.
In large family father unwilling but mother willing to sell children.
Test of faithfulness of husband and wife.
Husband refuses to murder his wife for high honors; wife agrees to murder husband.
Husband has a friend woo his wife: she is seduced.
Husband has friend woo his wife: wife is generous to certain point only.
Husband has friend woo his wife: seduction narrowly averted by frightened husband's intervention.
Husband castrates himself to test wife's faithfulness.
Virility test for husband.
Maternity test: to produce a baby within a year.
Mother test.
Baby finds its mother, goes to her for suckling.
Mother test: milk goes long distance into child's mouth.
Old woman suckles all babies at son's circumcision to prove she has borne child.
Sons tested for skill.
Test of wisdom.
Test of wisdom: wise man sends ruler magic gems.
Wise man answers questions of many with single speech.
Sons tested for wisdom; given same amount of money.
Test of learning.
Test of religious learning.
Test of musical ability.
Song duel.
Test of skill in handiwork.
Contest in lifelike painting.
Contest in lifelike painting: fly on saint's nose.
Contest in lifelike painting: mare and curtain.
Contest in lifelike painting: grapes and curtain.
Barber's contest in shaving (without waking man).
Test of cleverness: uttering three wise words.
Test of cleverness: uttering three truths.
Test of resourcefulness.
Test of resourcefulness: weighing elephant.
Test of resourcefulness: finding how many people are in dark closed room.
Test of resourcefulness: carrying wolf, goat, and cabbage across stream.
Test of resourcefulness: putting thread through coils of snail shell.
Test of resourcefulness: to swing seventy girls until they are tired.
Test of resourcefulness: not to sit at the foot of couch.
Test of resourcefulness: to eat food without untying cloth containing it; hole torn in cloth.
Test of resourcefulness: to get melon out of jar without breaking it.
Test of resourcefulness: to cook rice without fire (in hot sand).
Test of resourcefulness: to find relationships among three sticks: they are put in vessel of water; degree of sinking shows what part of
tree each comes from.
Test of resourcefulness: to discover how old, respectively, three horses are.
Wit combat.
Princess offered to man who can defeat her in repartee.
Princess defeated in repartee by means of objects accidentally picked up.
King defeated in repartee by boy, who thus wins girl.
Princess offered to man who can defeat her in argument.
Princess skillful in argument.
Test: making senseless remarks.
Contest in wishing.
Three brothers contest in wishing.
Wit combat among three sisters for additional dowry.
Contest in scolding as introduction to battle.
Literary contest won by deception: he who will be first silenced is the loser.
Test: finding answer to certain question.
King propounds questions to his sons to determine successor.
Bride offered to man who can find answer to question.
Tests of cleverness or ability: miscellaneous.
Test: threading needle.
Contest in making mouths water.
Chess game as test.
Tests of poetic ability.
Test: supplying missing half-stanza.
Contest in adding a verse which makes the first poet ridiculous.
Riddles proposed as tests of poetic ability.
Understanding poem as test.
Test: telling skillful lie.
Test: telling five lies which should so closely resemble the truth the tester will believe them himself.
Princess offered to correct guesser.
Three caskets.
Choice of two sword sheaths (from one a gold shaft protrudes; from the other, a silver).
Suitor must prefer princess to treasures.
Test: to guess which of veiled sisters has golden hair.
Guessing with life as wager.
Guessing contest between kings.
Test: guessing trolls' names in order to save one's life.
Curse evaded by guessing names in magic writing.
Test: guessing unknown propounder's name.
Test: guessing unknown propounder's age.
Test: guessing unknown animal (plant).
Test: guessing origin of certain skin.
Test: guessing nature of certain skin--louse-skin.
Test: guessing nature of certain skin--wolf-skin.
Test: guessing origin of animal lungs.
Test: guessing nature of certain plant.
Test: identifying what type of rice is in sack.
Test: guessing nature of devil's possessions.
Test: guessing nature of devil's horse.
Test: guessing nature of devil's cloth.
Test: guessing nature of devil's gold cup.
Test: guessing nature of devil's roast meat.
Test: guessing nature of devil's spoon.
Test: guessing nature of devil's wine glass.
Test: guessing nature of devil's plate.
Test: guessing nature of devil's purse.
Test: guessing person's thoughts.
"What am I thinking?" Test: guessing princess's birthmarks.
Question: "What is under my cloak?" Guessing: whether more of a certain stone is above or below
ground.
Guessing sex of unborn child (or animal).
Test: to prophesy offspring of cow and mare.
Supernatural creatures propound riddles.
Queen propounds riddles.
Queen of Sheba propounds riddles to Solomon.
King propounds riddles.
Riddles sent to Solomon by King Hiram.
Saint as propounder of riddles.
Bridegroom propounds riddles at wedding feast.
Riddle propounded with penalty for failure.
Riddle propounded on pain of death.
Sphinx propounds riddle on pain of death.
Riddle propounded on pain of loss of property.
Fine for failure to solve riddle.
Riddle propounded on pain of loss of official position.
Death sentence escaped by propounding riddle king (judge) cannot solve *Type 927; *De Vries FFC LXXIII 314f.
Riddle assigned defendant in action.
Escape from devil by answering his riddles.
Devil held off from person by answering his riddles.
Child in cradle guesses devil's riddle: all are saved.
Answers found in other world to riddles propounded on way.
Riddle contests.
King and rabbi exchange riddles.
Princess offered to man who can out-riddle her.
Man wins wife by instructing her how to answer her mother's riddles.
Woman gives self to solver of riddles.
Man marries girl who guesses his riddles.
Solvers of riddles.
Clever peasant girl asked riddles by king.
Clever peasant wife asks king riddles.
Conflict between peasant and nobleman decided so that each must answer riddles: peasant's daughter solves them.
Clever daughter construes enigmatic sayings.
Found mortar taken to king reveals peasant girl's wisdom.
King and abbot.
Solomon and Marcolf.
King Solomon as master riddle-solver.
King and clever youth.
King and clever minister.
King and peasant vie in riddling questions and answers.
King and peasant: the plucked fowl.
Druid as solver of riddles.
Cleric as solver of riddles.
Clever prince interprets enigmatic statements.
Saint as solver of riddles.
Inscription on home of riddle-solver "I have no care." Riddle propounded from chance experience.
Happenings before feast give Samson clue for riddles.
Counterquestions.
Counterquestion: "What is difference between you and an ass?
Reductio ad absurdum of riddle: stallions of Babylon.
Answer to riddle found by trickery.
Riddle solved with aid of hidden informant.
Problem of why certain person cannot sleep solved by trickery.
Riddle solved by listening to propounder talk in his sleep.
Riddles solved with aid of propounder's wife.
Accidental discovery of answer to riddle.
Girl given enigmatic commands must do the opposite.
Three young men arrested tell who they are.
Arrested man tells who he is: before his father the great incline the head and give blood and money (barber).
Arrested man tells who he is: the hospitable fire of his father is sought (bean merchant).
Arrested man tells who he is: father throws himself into the ranks and holds them (weaver).
Arrested farmer tells who he is: one son is thief (priest), second beggar (teacher), and third murderer (doctor).
Riddling answers betray theft or adultery *BP I 198, II 361f.
Riddling answer betrays theft.
The full moon and the thirtieth of the month.
Riddling answers betray adultery.
Enigmatic statement betrays incest.
Woman's question to her husband disguised as woman, how many men she had in one night.
Clever youth (maiden) answers king's inquiry in riddles.
King: What do you see? Youth: One and a half men and a horse's head.
King: Are you alone at home? Youth: Not now; I see the half of two quadrupeds.
King: What is your father doing? Youth: He is in the vineyard and is doing good and bad.
King: What is your father doing? Youth: Makes an evil greater.
King: What is your father doing? Youth: Makes many out of few.
King: What is your father doing? Youth: Makes better from good.
King: What is your father doing? Youth: Cuts wood which was burnt last year.
King: What is your father doing? Youth: He fences thorns with thorns.
King: What is your brother doing? Youth: He hunts; he throws away what he catches and what he does not catch he carries with him.
King: What is your brother doing? Youth: He runs back and forth.
King: What is your brother doing? Youth: He sits between heaven and earth.
King: What is your mother doing? Youth: She does for another what the latter cannot do for her.
King: What is your mother doing? Youth: She shows the light of the world to one who has not yet seen it.
King: What is your mother doing? Youth: She is baking the bread we ate last week.
King: What is your mother doing? Youth: She cuts off the heads of the well to cure the sick.
King: What is your mother doing? Youth: She drives away the hungry and compels the filled to eat.
King: What are your mother and father doing? Girl: Mother is separating earth (being a midwife), and father is mixing earth (at a
funeral).
King: What is your mother doing? Girl: She has gone to turn one into two (to split peas).
King: What is your sister doing? Youth: She is mourning last year's laughter.
King: What are you doing? Youth: I boil those which come and go.
King: Where shall I tie my horse? Maiden: Between summer and winter.
Maiden (to king): The house has neither eyes nor ears.
Maiden (to king): Shall I feed you with loss or gain.
Girl to king: Should it (the flood) come I shall not come; should it not come, I shall come.
Other riddling answers.
Enigmatic conversation of king and peasant.
The four coins.
King: Why did you not do it (marry so that sons could help you)? Peasant: I did, but it was not God's will (I married three times but it
was not God's will Riddling remarks of traveling companion interpreted by girl
(man) at end of journey.
Man helps traveler and makes riddling remarks.
Traveler says he is going to the city to see what has become of the seed he sowed in the street.
Traveler says he is going to seek a hind that he saw in the woods ten years before.
Traveler says he must look after his net to see if it has taken fish.
One traveler to another: Let us carry each other and shorten the way.
One traveler to another: That field (uncut) is already harvested.
One traveler to another (as they see corpse borne by): He is not entirely dead.
One traveler to another (when asked how he crossed an unbridged stream): I cross on an ashen bridge.
One traveler to another: Is this cup valuable or not? Boy says that travelers should catch the mares (walking
sticks that are in the jungle).
King gives enigmatic order to minister.
Enigmatic letter of king must be explained on pain of death.
King: Show me a ruby eight for a pice, nectar eight for a pice, and a faithless creature worth one-eighth of a pice.
Enigmatic counsels of a father.
Father-in-law gives daughter-in-law enigmatic permission to go home.
Father's counsel: walk not in sunshine from your house to your shop.
Father's counsel: let pilav be your daily food.
Father's counsel: marry a new wife every week.
Father's counsel: on wishing to drink wine go to the vat and drink it.
Father's counsel: if you want to gamble, then gamble with experienced gamblers.
Father's counsel: dress up the trunks of trees, cover the road.
Father's counsel: find treasure within a foot of the ground.
Father's counsel: the four wells.
Father's counsel: dam up the outlets.
Father's counsel: don't stay too late with a concubine, nor tell her any secret.
Always eat bread with "honey".
"Never greet anyone." "Always wear new shoes."
"Have a black look" (frown).
"Bite the ear" (do state affairs secretly).
"Take people by the locks" (use your influence to make people subservient to you).
"If you have to go to a prostitute, go early in the morning."
"When you go to the bazar, eat your morning meal first." "A father should always check and never forgive; a mother
should always forgive and never check." "Do not plant a thorny tree."
Enigmatic advice: take only salt and water as food.
Extraordinary actions explained.
Man puts on shoes only when he wades river.
Man uses umbrella under trees.
Man cuts hooks for the revenge of his father (Hamlet).
Enigmatic statement made clear by experience.
"Love like Salt." "Love like wind in hot sun."
Poison in nectar: wife who betrays husband to his enemies.
Nectar in poison: mistress who saves her lover.
Dogs in human shape: friends who seduce man's wife.
Donkey ruling a kingdom: king condemning man unjustly.
Suitors receive enigmatic answers.
Inhospitality reproved enigmatically.
Enigmatic statement: roof has no eaves.
Enigmatic statement: the tank (pond) does not belong to you.
Enigmatic statement: the flocks are only rocks and grass.
Enigmatic welcome of host.
Symbolic invitation to continued liberality.
Enigmatic counsels of relatives (other than father).
Enigmatic counsels of a brother.
Enigmatic counsels of older brother.
Other enigmatic statements.
Girl will not drink of water which had no father or mother Enigmatic statements of a sham mad man (Hamlet).
Clever flatterer: Sir, you are a full moon, and my sovereign is a new moon (the full moon will decline, but the new moon has but
started on its growth).
Man asked to kill thousands, press hundreds beneath his arm, etc.
Enigmatic counsel: uproot old trees and plant new ones (dismiss old governors and appoint new).
Give coals orange color, let glimmer of gold appear like expanse of heaven, prepare two heads of darkness.
Wise carving of the fowl.
Wise division of the goat (similar).
Symbolic meaning of numbers, letters, etc.
Symbolic meaning of numbers.
Symbolic meaning of numbers one to seven (ten, twelve).
Symbolic interpretation of letters.
Symbolic interpretation of names.
Symbolic interpretation of playing cards.
Symbolic meaning of spiced and bitter tongue served at dinner.
Angel gives symbolic interpretation of value of work as well as of prayer.
Symbolic interpretation of sin.
Discussion by symbols.
Discussion between priest and Jew carried on by symbols.
Discussion between two poets (sages?) carried on in poetic obscure language.
Learned professor from one university examines by signs a professor at another university (actually shoemaker or miller or the like).
Princess declares her love through sign language: not understood.
Is town too full of anchorites? Symbolic interpretation of official robes.
Symbolic interpretation of points on a bishop's hat.
Youth asks for branch of tree; promised root.
Melons ripe and overripe analogous to girls ready for marriage.
Sign message sent by girl to enamored prince; interpreted by prince's friend.
Chief asks another for cutting of yams to complete his yam patch (daughter in marriage).
Explanation of enigmatic phenomenon.
Explanation of phenomenon; a man who not only picks up wood but everything that lies in his path (a miser).
Explanation of phenomenon: large pond emptying itself into several smaller pools (man may spend without getting any return).
Symbolic interpretations of dreams.
Other symbolic interpretations.
Symbolic interpretation of chairs in heaven.
Symbolic interpretation of church and image therein.
Roots and branches of World-tree explained symbolically.
Symbolic interpretation of ineffectual thatching of house and building of fire in otherworld.
Symbolical interpretation of fight between one-legged bird and twelve-legged bird.
Skillful companions create woman: to whom does she belong? Skillful companions resuscitate girl: to whom does she
belong? Girl rescued by skillful companions: to whom does she
belong? Hare and pig race across ditch.
Riddle: what is the strongest? What is the strongest? A horse.
What is the strongest? God.
What is strongest? Earth.
What is strongest? Woman.
What is strongest? Truth.
What is mightiest? Rain.
What is strongest? Necessity.
What is strongest? Wine.
What is strongest? The king.
Riddle: what is the swiftest? What is swiftest? Thought.
What is swiftest? The eye.
What is swiftest? The sun.
Riddle: what is sweetest? What is sweetest? Sleep.
What is sweetest? Peace in heaven.
What is sweetest? Mother's breast.
What is sweetest? One's own interest.
What is sweeter than sugar? The princess's speech.
Riddle: what is the sweetest song? What is the sweetest song? Angel song.
Riddle: what is the sweetest sound? What is the sweetest sound? Bell-ringing.
What is the sweetest sound? God's Word.
Riddle: what is the richest? What is richest? Autumn.
Riddle: what is the hardest? What is hardest? Parent's heart
What is the hardest? Death.
Riddle: what is costliest? What is costliest? The earth.
Riddle: what is most beautiful? What is most beautiful? The spring.
What is most beautiful? Earth.
Riddle: what is highest? What is highest? Sun, moon, and stars.
Riddle: what is deepest? What is deepest? The heart of man.
Riddle: what is longest? What is longest? The way through the world.
Riddle: what is the heaviest? What is heaviest? Lead.
Riddle: what is greenest? What is greenest? The Month of May.
Riddle: what is the most beloved? What is most beloved? Life.
What is most beloved? Health.
Riddle: what is best? What is best? God.
What is best? Water.
Riddle: what is brightest? What is brightest? The sun.
What is brightest? Mother's eyes.
Riddle: what is softest? What is softest? The hand.
What is softest? Mother's bosom.
Riddle: what is the fattest? What is the fattest? The earth.
Riddles of the superlative--miscellaneous.
Riddle: what is oldest? What is oldest? God.
Riddle: what four things are hardest to hold? What four things are hardest to hold? Wolf by eyebrows,
bear by claws, snake by tail, hawk by beak.
Riddle: what are best and worst stones? What are best and worst stones? Best: altar, whetstone,
millstone; worst: hailstone, stone in the eye, gallstone.
Riddle: what is the best fowl? What is the best fowl? The goose, since it makes the
cabbage sweet and the bed soft.
Riddle: what is best religion--Christian or Mohammedan? What is best religion--Christian or Mohammedan? They are
equally good: Riddle: what kind of work occupies most men?
What kind of work occupies most men? Healing, for every sick man practices this.
Riddle: what is greatest? What is greatest? Fame.
What is the greatest? A sense of shame.
What is the greatest? Charity.
What is the greatest villainy? Stealing.
What is moistest? The south wind.
Riddle: what is wisest? What is wisest? Time.
Riddle: what is most general? What is most general? Hope.
Riddle: what is most useful? What is most useful? Excellence.
Riddle: what is most shameful? What is most shameful? Cowardice.
Riddle: what is most pleasant? What is most pleasant? Love.
Riddle: what is easiest? What is easiest? The natural.
Riddle: what is the hardest to skin? What is the hardest to skin? The male member.
Who are the best painters? Women Riddle: what is the best time to eat? For the rich man,
when he wishes; for the poor man, when he has something to eat.
What are the most accursed things? What are the most accursed things? A thriftless wife, a
baldheaded daughter, a sour-faced daughter-in-law, a crooked axle, and a field which lies across the village road.
What is the most difficult to find and the most difficult to lose? The truth.
Who are really irresistible? Meat and drink.
Who are really meek? Cows and daughters.
Which is best, domestic or ascetic life? With good wife domestic life is best.
Which is the best of flowers? Cotton.
What is the finest jewel? What is most faithful thing in world?
What is most faithless thing in world? Riddle: what is swifter than a bird, the wind or lightning?
The eye.
Riddle: what is dearer than gold? Mother love.
Riddle: what is whiter than a swan? An angel.
Riddle: what is sweeter than honey? Riddle: what is softer than swan down?
Riddle: what is harder than stone? Who is greater than God? Man's purpose.
Riddles of terrestrial distance.
Riddle: how far is it from one end of the earth to the other (east to west)?
How far is it from one end of the earth to the other? A day's journey, since the sun makes it daily.
Riddle: how deep is the earth (or how far to lower world)? How deep is the earth? It is deep: my grandfather went into
it (died) years ago and has not yet returned.
How deep is the earth? My father went five years ago to measure it (died); when he returns I shall tell you the result.
Riddle: what is the center of the earth? Where is the center of the earth? Here; if you don't
believe it, measure it yourself.
Where is the center of the earth? Here, for the earth is round and any point can serve as center.
Riddle: how deep is the sea? How deep is the sea? A stone's throw.
How deep is the sea? At first, knee-deep; further on, waist-deep, neck-deep; and beyond that over the head.
Riddles of heavenly distance.
Riddle: how far is it from earth to heaven? How far is it from earth to heaven? A day's journey, since
Christ went to heaven in one day.
How far is it from earth to heaven? A day's journey, since there is no inn to stop at on the way.
How far is it from earth to heaven? So and so high, and if you don't believe it, measure it yourself.
How far is it from earth to heaven? As far as you can see.
How far is it from earth to heaven? As far as from heaven to earth.
How far is it from earth to heaven? Not far; when it thunders there it can be heard here.
How far from earth to heaven? A calf's (fox's) tail, if it were long enough.
How far from earth to heaven? A leg's length, for it is written, Heaven is my throne and earth my footstool.
How far from earth to heaven? One step, for they say, He stands with one foot in the grave and one in heaven.
How far from earth to heaven? The devil knows for he has fallen this distance.
Riddle: how wide is heaven? How wide is heaven? So and so wide, and if you do not
believe it, go measure it yourself.
How many exits from paradise? Riddle: how far is it from happiness to misfortune?
How far is it from happiness to misfortune? One day; yesterday I was herdsman and now I am abbot.
Riddles of weight.
Riddle: how much does the moon weigh? How much does the moon weigh? A pound, for it has four
quarters.
How much does the moon weigh? So and so much, and if you don't believe it go and weigh it yourself.
Riddle: how heavy is the earth? How heavy is the earth? Take away all the stones and I will
weigh it.
Riddles of measure.
Riddle: how much water is in the sea? How much water is in the sea? Stop all the rivers and I
will measure it.
How much water is in the sea? So and so much, and if you don't believe it, go measure it yourself.
How much water is in the sea? A tub-full if the tub is large enough.
How many measures of water are in the river? Riddle: how many seconds in eternity?
How many seconds in eternity? A bird carries a grain of sand from a mountain each century; when the whole mountain is gone, the first
second of eternity has passed.
Riddle: how many stars in the heavens? How many stars in the heavens? As many as the grains of
sand; if you don't believe it, count them yourself.
How many stars in the heaven? Two million; if you don't believe it, count them yourself.
How many stars in the heavens? As many as the hairs in the head; if you don't believe it, count them yourself.
How many stars in the heavens? As many as the hairs in the goatskin (on a donkey).
How many stars in the heavens? As many as the points on paper; if you don't believe it, count them yourself.
Riddle: how many hairs are in the head? How many hairs are there in the head? As many as are in the
tail of my ass; if you don't believe it we will keep pulling out one hair from your beard and one from his tail.
Riddle: how many drops in the sea.
Riddle: how many leaves are on the tree? How many leaves are on the tree? As many as there are stems
for.
How many leaves are on the tree? So and so many; and if you don't believe it, go count them.
How many leaves are on the tree? Counterquestion: how many stars in the sky?
Riddle: how many days have passed since the time of Adam? How many days have passed since the time of Adam? The seven
days of the week.
Riddle of dates.
When were you born? Its beginning is like its end, its top like its bottom (1691).
Are there more men or women in the world? Riddle: how much am I (the king) worth?
How much am I (the king) worth? Twenty-nine pieces of silver, for Christ was sold for thirty.
Riddle: how much is my beard (king's) worth? How much is king's beard worth? The months July, August,
and September.
How much is king's beard worth? A May rain (three rains in summer).
Riddle: how much is a golden plow (throne, crown, palace) worth?
How much is a golden plow (throne, crown, palace) worth? A rain in May.
Riddle: how much does the sun earn for his daily work? How much does the sun earn for his daily work? A day's
wages.
Riddle: how much is a certain crucifix worth? Twenty-nine pieces of silver.
Riddle of the year.
Riddle: tree with twelve branches, each with thirty leaves, black and white.
Riddle: tree with leaves white on one side and black on other.
Riddle: twelve cypresses with thirty boughs each.
Riddle: palace consisting of 8760 stones; twelve trees, thirty branches, each with black and white cluster of grapes.
Riddle of the day and night.
Riddle: white brother, black sister: every morning brother kills sister; every evening sister kills brother; they never die.
Riddle: black and white horses chasing each other.
Riddle of the course of the sun.
Riddle: bird nests on top of one cypress in morning, on top of another in evening.
Riddle: who are the real travellers? The son and the moon.
Riddle of king and courtiers.
Riddle: king in red; courtiers in white.
Riddle: king in white; courtiers in white.
Riddle: king in red; courtiers in different colors.
Riddle: what is the mother who devours her children when they grow up?
Riddle white field, black seed.
Riddle: two legs, three legs, four legs.
Riddle: four hang, four walk, two show the road, one wags behind.
Riddle: six legs, four ears, two faces, etc.
Riddle: bill white, horns on feet, knob on head (cock).
Riddle: who of fourfold beard is he, of azure foot and neck so ruddy? Arrow.
Riddle of the Sphinx: what is it that goes on four legs in the morning, on two at midday, and on three in the evening.
Riddle: two are better than three (two legs better than man with staff in old age).
Riddle: what is the creature that is of all countries, that is loved by all the world, and that has no equal?
Riddle: the father not yet born, the son already at the top of the house.
Riddle: bird without feathers flies on tree without leaves.
From wooden spring iron bucket makes stones from which water flows.
Allegorical riddles.
Riddle: what is that thou passest over with haste? What house
gives no hostages, cannot be burned, and cannot be harried? (The fairy stronghold [sнdh] of brugh na Boinne.
Riddle: why is the hair gray before the beard? Riddle: why are there more days than nights?
Riddle: why are there more living than dead? Riddle: why are there more women than men?
Riddle: a fish was my father; a man was my mother.
Riddle of the unborn.
Riddle: seven tongues in a head.
Relationship riddles arising from unusual marriages of relatives.
Riddle: what does God do? What does God do? He brings low the proud and exalts the
lowly What does God do? God is astonished that I sit on a horse
and the king on an ass Riddle: one killed none and yet killed twelve.
Riddle: deaths from sleepiness, anger, and greed.
Riddle: from the eater came forth meat and from the strong sweetness.
Riddle of the murdered lover.
Riddle: drink this wine which a bird took to nest.
Formerly I was daughter, now I am mother; I have a son who was the husband of my mother.
Riddle: who first spun and when? Riddle: what were the clothes of Adam and Eve?
Riddle: who, having neither father nor mother, are dead? Riddle: who, having had father and mother, is not dead?
Riddle: who, having had father and mother, is not dead like other mortals?
Riddle: who has had, here below, two names? Riddle: what was the walking tomb with the living tenant?
Riddle: what is the land that has seen the sun only once? What is the land that has seen the sun only once?
What is the tree that became flesh? Riddle: what is that which has drunk water for its
sustenance and eaten after its death? Riddle: the king is surrounded by his nobles; what is this
like? Riddle: what did Christ do in his 30th year?
Riddle: what does the king of the world of the Devas do? What three not born of male and female ate and drank on
earth? Riddle: what house was full of dead?
What was not born, yet life was given to it? Riddle: worth of the animal.
Riddle: what animal is good living but not dead? Riddle: what animal is good dead but not living?
Riddle: what animal is good living and dead? Riddle: what animal is not good living or dead?
Riddle: animal qualities.
What animal which lives in sea-water will drown if taken out of it?
What animal which lives in fire will burn if taken out of it?
What animal has one voice living and seven voices dead? Riddle: what are the two fixed, the two moving, the two
joined, the two separated by jealousy, the two eternal enemies? What two trees do not fade until they wither?
What goodness did man find on earth that God did not find? Riddle: what are the two combatants without hands or feet
or words? Riddle: what is that which is neither man nor jinn nor
beast nor bird? Riddle: what do crows do when they are five years old?
Riddle: what six things are not worth doing? Three stupid things for men to do (various answers).
Riddle: what is the difference between a poor man and a rich?
Riddle: what is it that one buys who does not want it or use it?
Riddles with "none" as answer.
Riddle: how many dead mice go to a feast? Riddle: bottom and top of staff.
Riddle: where is the root of the floor? Riddles about flax.
Riddles about naphtha.
Tasks imposed on pain of death.
Tasks imposed on pain of death of relative (friend, hostage, etc.
Bird must bring orphan to king or bird will be killed.
Heads placed on stakes for failure in performance of task.
Task assigned the Gods.
Tasks assigned at suggestion of jealous rivals.
Task (quest) assigned at suggestion of jealous co-wife.
Tasks assigned at suggestion of jealous brothers (sisters).
Tasks assigned by jealous parent.
Tasks assigned by jealous mother.
Task assigned at suggestion of jealous mother Task suggested by jealous co-wife of mother.
Tasks assigned at suggestion of jealous father.
Task assigned at suggestion of jealous father (of prospective bride).
Tasks assigned because of mother's foolish boasting.
Tasks assigned because of girl's (boy's) own foolish boast.
Tasks assigned because of man's boast.
Tasks imposed at suggestion of spouse (sweetheart).
Tasks imposed because of wife's foolish boast.
Malicious wife reports that her husband is a famous doctor: he is commanded to cure the princess.
Task imposed because of girl's foolish boast.
Tasks assigned at suggestion of wife and paramour.
Tasks assigned at own unwitting suggestion.
Tasks assigned at suggestion contained in letter borne by the victim.
Assignment of tasks in response to suggestion--miscellaneous.
Tasks assigned at suggestion of treacherous servants.
Task upon suggestion of barber.
Tasks assigned at suggestion of religious person.
Task assigned at suggestion of parrot.
Impossible task assigned by plaintiff as proof.
Task assigned at suggestion of treacherous soldier.
Tasks assigned at instigation of queen (disguised ogress).
King (father) assigns tasks to his unknown son.
Task set by king to sons to determine heir to kingdom.
Departing husband assigns his wife tasks.
Tasks assigned before man may rescue wife from spirit world.
Task assigned before wife may rescue husband from supernatural power.
Tasks assigned prisoner so that he may escape punishment.
Tasks assigned as ransom.
Tasks set by deity.
Tasks as trial of prowess of mortal by gods.
Task assigned by angel on God's order.
Tasks imposed as tribute.
Tasks imposed as fine.
Tasks assigned in order to get rid of hero.
Prince envious of hero's wife assigns hero tasks.
Husband assigns tasks for king who has stolen his wife.
Disagreeable tasks set hero to do so that he will disobey and be killed.
Tasks assigned to devil (ogre).
Princess sets hero tasks.
Princess throws handkerchief high in tree; asks hero to get it.
Maiden queen sets hero three dangerous tasks in order to disenchant her sisters.
Princess orders hero to bring her rings of another princess.
Quest assigned by scorned princess.
Queen of Sea sets hero tasks.
Relative assigns tasks.
Wife assigns husband tasks.
Sisters-in-law impose tasks.
Tasks assigned by stepmother.
Task imposed by elder brothers.
Witch assigns tasks.
Tasks assigned because of longings of pregnant woman.
Task assigned by dying child.
Fairy assigns tasks.
Other assigners of tasks.
Tasks assigned by druid.
Tests imposed on woman by prospective paramour.
Tasks set by cruel sisters-in-law to get tigress.
Giant assigns task.
Serpent-king assigns task.
Cumulative tasks: second assigned so that first can be done.
Tasks assigned as payment of gambling loss.
Tasks voluntarily undertaken.
Warriors go towards strong enemy as consequence of own boast.
Hero goes north to fight with trolls.
Task assigned from misunderstanding.
Task assigned from misunderstanding: search for prince named Sabr ("wait").
Countertasks.
Reductio ad absurdum of task.
Tasks performed by cleverness.
Tasks performed by close observation.
Task: sitting on eggs without breaking them; hero perceives trick.
Tasks performed by means of secrets overheard from tree.
Task performed with help of old person.
Tasks performed with help of old woman.
Task performed with help of little old men.
Tasks accomplished with help of grateful dead.
Tasks performed by captive spirits of the dead.
Tasks performed by helpful forest spirits.
Task performed by fairy.
Tasks performed with help of four demons in ring.
Task performed by dwarfs.
Task performed with help of supernatural wife.
Task performed with help of mistress.
Tasks performed by deity.
Task performed by deity in answer to prayer.
Tasks performed by aid of goddess.
Task performed by mysterious stranger.
Tasks performed with help of brother.
Animals help man perform task.
Pigeons cover the sun's rays with their outstretched wings and lengthen night to six months so that hero's task can be completed in one
night.
Task performed with help of angel.
Tasks performed with help of saint.
Tasks performed with help of Brahmadaitya.
Task performed with help of druid.
Help in performance of tasks: invisible hands.
Task performed with aid of magic object.
Unpromising hero last to try task (rescue from animal).
Task: construction from impossible kind of material.
Task: making a rope of sand.
Task: making a rope of sand; countertask: first showing the pattern.
Task: making a rope of chaff.
Task: making ship of stone.
Task: making a knot of spilled brandy.
Task: making an invisible knot with an egg.
Task: weaving a silk shirt from hair.
Task: weaving a silk shirt from hair; countertask: making a loom from shavings.
Task: taking a stick from the body.
Task: spinning gold.
Task: sewing a shirt of stone.
Task: sewing a shirt from flower petals.
Task: brewing ale from sweet milk.
Task: making a peacock of silk.
Task: construction from impossible amount of material.
Task: weaving cloth from two threads.
Task: making many shirts from one hank of flax
Task: clothing an army from one hank of flax; countertask: making horseshoes for cavalry from one needle.
Task: weaving a shirt from a piece of thread; countertask: making a loom from a rod.
Task: making sails for ship from one bundle of linen; countertask: making spindle and loom from one stick of wood.
Task: making shirt from piece of linen three inches square.
Task: making shirt derived from a single flax-seed.
Task: weaving mantle from wool of a single sheep.
Task: making shawl-cloth one hundred cubits in length out of one cocoon of silk.
Task: feeding army from one measure of meal.
Task: making broth for army.
Task: making many kinds of food from one small bird.
Task: making ale derived from a single grain of corn.
Task: making boat from splinters of a spindle and shuttle.
Task: brewing impossible amount of ale from one grain of corn.
Task: bringing quantity of mosquito bones within month; countertask: furnishing scales with wind as beams and heat as pans.
Tasks contrary to the nature of objects.
Task: hatching boiled eggs.
Task: hatching boiled eggs; countertask: sowing cooked seeds and harvesting the crop.
Task: hatching eggs immediately; countertask: sowing seeds and bringing in crop next morning.
Task: carrying water in a sieve.
Task: carrying water in sieve; sieve filled with moss.
Task: carrying water in sieve; pious child able to do so.
Task: carrying water in leaky vessel.
Task: carrying water in leaky vessel; vessel repaired with clay or gum.
Task: carrying water in leaky vessel; frog sits in hole.
Hero sets wife to task of filling water-bottle with spout turned downward.
Impossible task: filling a grain-bin through the hole in the bottom.
Task: filling a bottomless water tube.
Task: filling pots having subterranean outlets.
Task: bringing berries (fruit, roses) in winter.
Task: bringing berries in winter.
Task: procuring cuckoo to sing in winter.
Task: making withered flowers green.
Task: straightening a curly hair.
Task: making a dog's tail straight.
Task: pumping out a leaky ship.
Task: washing black wool (cloth, cattle) white.
Task: washing large heavy quilt covered with ghi and oil without aid of soap or anything.
Task: sewing together a broken mill-stone.
Task: sewing together a broken egg.
Task: sewing together a broken ship.
Task: fixing the two pieces of a broken sword together.
Task: mending a broken jug.
Task: mending a broken jug; countertask: turning it wrong side out as one does a shoe.
Task: skinning a stone.
Task: skinning a stone; countertask: first let the stone bleed.
Task: putting a large squash whole into a narrow-necked jar.
Task: catching a noise.
Task: catching a man's broken wind.
Task: splitting a hair with a blunt knife.
Task: turning fruit into gold.
Task: making sun and moon shine in the north.
Task: sowing rye and bringing crop next morning.
Task: putting peaches back on tree.
Task: bringing bundle of faggots without rope to tie them.
Task: fetching water from the well in a bucket without the use of rope to draw it with.
Task: gathering a necklace of rubies from the sea.
Task: catching a sunbeam.
Task: tying the sun with a stone chain.
Suitor asked to bathe in great cauldron of boiling water without making water lukewarm.
Task: bringing a well (pond, lake) to king.
Task: bringing well to king; countertask: sending his own well to accompany it.
Tasks contrary to the nature of animals.
Task: milking a bull.
Task: making a bull bear a calf.
Task: making a bull bear a calf.
Task: placing frogs in a tree.
Task: chasing a hare into every trap in a high tree.
Task: teaching an ass to read.
Task: sowing dragon's teeth.
Task: procuring bird out of season.
Task: teaching animal to speak.
Task: teaching horse to speak.
Task: spinning wool still on goat's back.
Task: obtaining fat (bacon) from swine that never was farrowed.
Task: changing the course of time.
Task: naming those things which have not yet happened.
Task: bringing past time to present.
Task: showing picture of a voice.
Task: eating the moon.
Task: building castle suspended between heaven and earth.
Task: getting fruit from top of tall tree without cutting tree.
Task: bringing a plantain leaf from the garden without tearing it.
Task: recalling a dream someone else has had.
Task: filling a sack full of lies (truths).
Task: going to get nothing and bringing it back.
Task: carrying woman across river without wetting feet.
Task: dipping water without wetting dipper.
Task: cutting and bringing leaves from thorn thicket without tearing them at all.
Task: drinking beer without touching pot.
Task: bringing melon 12 cubits long with seed 13 cubits long.
Other impossible tasks--miscellaneous.
Task: bringing the foam of the ocean in a large piece of cloth.
Task: growing oil seed on stony ground.
Task: setting back sun.
Task: stopping the rain.
Task: coming neither on nor off the road.
Task: standing neither inside nor outside of gate.
Task: coming neither on horse nor on foot (riding nor walking).
Task: coming neither on horse nor on foot.
Task: coming neither on horse nor on foot.
Task: coming neither on horse nor on foot.
Task: coming neither on horse nor on foot.
Task: coming neither on horse nor on foot.
Task: coming neither on horse nor on foot.
Task: coming neither naked nor clad.
Task: coming neither naked nor clad.
Task: coming neither naked nor clad.
Task: coming neither naked nor clad.
Task: coming "neither in softness nor in hardness." Task: coming neither barefoot nor shod.
Task: coming neither with nor without a present (game).
Task: coming neither by day nor by night.
Task: standing between summer and winter.
Task: coming neither with nor without a companion.
Task: coming neither washed nor unwashed.
Task: coming neither hungry nor satiated.
Task: coming laughing and crying at once.
Task: bringing best friend, worst enemy, best servant, greatest pleasure-giver.
Task: sweep the floor and do not sweep it.
Task: light fire but do not light it.
Task: making bed but do not make it.
Task: eat bread but bring it back whole.
Task: give sheep good care but do not let it fatten.
Task: filling glasses with water that has neither fallen from heaven nor sprung from the earth.
Task: furnish beef which is neither male nor female.
Task: bringing something ever-increasing something ever-decreasing
something which neither increases nor decreases
and something which both increases and decreases
Task: building house neither on ground nor in sky.
Task: sorting a large amount of grain (beads, beans, peas) in one night.
Task: sorting grains: performed by helpful ants.
Task: sorting grains; performed by helpful birds.
Suitor test: scattering mountain of mustard seed in one watch gathering it together in another, pressing its oil out in another.
Task: spinning impossible amount in one night.
Task: spinning and weaving large amount by specified time.
Helpful animal performs spinning task.
Task: embroidering blanket in one day.
Task: unraveling in short time.
Task: unraveling a net in a short time.
Task: felling a forest in one night.
Task: collecting firewood quickly, sufficient to last remainder of one's life.
Task: stacking wood from felled forest in one day.
Task: washing enormous number of clothes (and other articles) in short time.
Task: draining sea-covered land in one night.
Task: drying up a lake in one night.
Task: cleaning enormous cistern in one day.
Task: removing mountain (mound) in one night.
Task: cleaning Augean stable.
Task: cleaning cowshed.
Task: emptying in one day a barn filled with manure.
Task: setting out vineyard in one night.
Task: making garden quickly in unplanted forest.
Task: making garden in three days.
Task: plowing enormous amount of land in one day.
Task: preparing and sowing impossible amount of land overnight.
Task: planting and growing crop overnight.
Task: covering mango tree grove with fruit in a single night.
Task: building castle in one night.
Task: building castle in three days.
Task: building a lodge entirely of bird's feathers in one night.
Task: in one day feathering a barn, each feather from different bird.
Task: thatching roof with bird feathers; half blow away while other half are sought.
Task: building entire village in one night.
Task: building a house of iron in one night.
Task: erecting marriage hall in one night.
Task: building granary full of grain overnight.
Task: digging a pond quickly.
Task: shearing flock of sheep in one day.
Task: bringing documents from distant city in one day.
Task: paving great road in short time.
Other tasks requiring miraculous speed.
Task: bringing water from distant fountain more quickly than a witch.
Task: hauling enormous number of things from one farm to another in one day.
Task: killing enough birds in one day to cover the mountain, each bird to be of a different species.
Task: exterminating mice infesting city in three days.
Task: carrying hundreds of sheep across stream one at a time.
Task: herding rabbits.
Task: keeping four dogs in herd.
Task: pasturing a cow which continues to run all day.
Task: bailing out a pond.
Bailing out pond with thimble.
Task: climbing glass mountain.
Task: securing three eggs from top of glass tower.
Task: carrying ever-increasing burden up mountain.
Task: chopping down large tree with blunt (fragile) implements.
Task: cutting down huge tree which magically regrows.
Task: sawing iron tree in two.
Task: cutting down a giant tree.
Task: breaking huge rock to pieces.
Task: cutting firewood from rocks with brass axe Task: breaking iron with wooden axe.
Task: tearing down a huge wall.
Task: bringing as many horses as there are days in the year.
Task: counting hairs in pig's back (feathers in bird).
Task: counting the seeds in a package of mustard.
Task: counting daily how many leaves fall off a tree.
Task: counting palm trees within view of king's palace.
Task: picking all nuts from tall tree.
Task: preparing large quantity of grain.
Task: supplying superhuman amount of grain.
Task: feeding ravenous beast to satiation.
Task: gathering all stones from brook or field.
Task: traveling till iron shoes are worn out.
Task: traveling till two skeins of thread are unwound.
Task: carrying off huge quantity of money.
Task: keeping up a certain work all night.
Other tedious tasks.
Task: filling the yard with manure.
Task: bringing twelve cartloads of mud without the use of buffaloes.
Task: filling twelve bed-ticks with feathers.
Task: carrying soil to cover stony ground.
Task: filling pot with dew.
Task: building a fire; whole tree burns up while man is bringing another.
Task: gathering firewood; bundle continually swept away from swimming man.
Task: building causeway, clearing land, etc.
Task: gathering bed-tick full of harp strings.
Task: gathering vessel full of nail-scrapings.
Task: gathering crow's house full of wren's eggs.
Task: gathering fist-full of fleas.
Impossible task: assembling huge quantity of many-colored fleas.
Task: carrying fuel.
Task: building enormous bridge.
Task: building bridge over land and sea.
Devil as suitor assigned task to build bridge or dam.
Task: recovering lost objects.
Task: recovering lost object from sea.
Task: recovering lost ring from sea.
Test: recovering ring from water.
Task: recovering lost key from sea.
Task: recovering strap from sea.
Task: recovering pen from sea.
Task: recovering lost fish-hook.
Task: recovering cooking-spit from sea.
Task: recovering crown from sea.
Task: recovering object in large fire.
Task: recovering object from python's hole.
Task: getting ring from python's hole (help from python goddess).
Task: building castle (fort).
Task: building magic castle.
Task: building castle in air.
Task: building castle in sea.
Task: building palace of gold (crystal).
Task: building palace and city.
Task: building exact replica of castle in wax.
Task: annihilating (overcoming) army single-handed.
Task: bringing winds from the whole world.
Task: bringing back flour scattered by wind.
Task: gathering wind in fists.
Task: binding waves of the sea.
Task: supplying water in land where it is lacking.
Task: "to turn low stream and fill the high stream." Task: eating enormous amount.
Task: eating mountain of bread.
Task: eating three hundred fat oxen.
Task: eating room-full of salt.
Task: eating entire goat without leaving a scrap.
Task: drinking enormous amount.
Task: drinking wine--cellar empty.
Task: drinking the sea dry.
Task: drinking the sea dry (illusion produced by magic thread which makes hero think he is drinking from spring).
Task: drinking the sea dry: countertask: stop all the rivers.
Task: dipping out the sea with a spoon: countertask: stop all the rivers.
Task: emptying the lake with a pail in one day.
Task: measuring ocean.
Task: to collect together all the drops of water.
Task: counting the waves.
Tasks: other difficult measurements.
Task: weighing fire.
Task: measuring a gust of wind.
Task: carrying mountain on head.
Task: making ladder which whole army cannot set up.
Miscellaneous superhuman tasks.
Task: yoking together lion and wild boar.
Task: lifting a certain cat.
Task: defeating a certain old woman.
Task: collecting enormous amount of material (number of rare objects, etc.
Feat on spear point.
Task: breaking pigeon's egg on parapet of castle.
Task: drawing spear thrust through seven iron plates.
Girl to bring cloth as long as river and raise pig as big as mountain.
Task: lifting mountain.
Task: jumping across river in one bound.
Theft as a task.
Task: stealing golden apples.
Task: stealing a golden lotus.
Task: stealing twelve horses out of stall.
Task: stealing horse when owner has been forewarned.
Task: stealing king's horse as he rides on it.
Task: stealing sheet from bed on which person is sleeping.
Task: stealing tray from king's bedside.
Task: stealing ring from finger.
Task: stealing belt from queen.
Task: stealing girdle of goddess.
Task: stealing elephant's tail (tusks).
Task: stealing enormous diamond from elephant's forehead.
Task: stealing the two horns of a savage bull.
Task: stealing gold-filled horn of wild three-horned ox.
Task: stealing cattle which are guarded by a marvelous dog.
Task: stealing troll's golden horse.
Task: bringing branch from tree guarded by ghosts.
Task: stealing pears from ingeniously guarded garden.
Task: bringing a baby lion's tail to use as broom.
Task: stealing eggs from under bird.
Task: stealing from a king.
Task: stealing pigskin from a king.
Task: stealing spear from a king.
Task: stealing horses (and chariot) from a king.
Task: stealing hound from a king.
Task: stealing three pearls from king's heavily guarded treasury.
Task: stealing sword from giant.
Task: stealing goddess Freya's necklace.
Task: stealing the mead of poetry.
Task: stealing the bait of the demon Aсan.
Task: liberating wife's sister, elephant's captive, who lives in a box in his ear.
Task: eating only what is stolen without sinning.
Task: stealing magic healing apples.
Task: stealing magic healing water.
Task: stealing laborer's pajamas.
Task: stealing beautiful clothing of a witch.
Task: stealing ogress's drum.
Task: stealing ogre's grain.
Task: bringing ruby in head of devastating serpent.
Task: selling an animal and keeping him.
Task: selling a sheep (goat) and bringing it back along with the money.
Task: selling three old women.
Tasks: capturing animals.
Task: bringing head(s) of animal(s).
Task: capturing magic pig carrying scissors, comb, and razors between its ears.
Task: capturing deer from herd watched by giant.
Task: capturing ninety pigs, ninety horses, and one hundred wild oxen.
Task: bridling a wild animal.
Task: bridling a wild horse.
Task: bridling ferocious bear.
Task: capturing and binding ferocious boar.
Task: measuring (killing) wild boar.
Task: capturing wild elephant.
Task: loading ferocious camels.
Task: yoking stags.
Task: bringing tigers.
Task: procuring four full-grown tigers to guard four gates of king's palace.
Task: catching huge fish without nets or tackle.
Task: capturing elk.
Task: capturing squirrel and rattlesnake.
Task: capturing bird.
Task: retrieving king's falcon.
Task: capturing blackbird (yearly).
Task: procuring four full-grown peacocks to sit one on each of four golden pinnacles of palace room.
Task: capturing magic horse.
Task: capturing pair of every wild animal in the land.
Task: capturing badgers.
Task: obtaining marrow of wild pig, lard of wild boar, water bird (coot?).
Task: bringing in fierce lion alive.
Task: taming wild animals.
Riding and taming a wild horse.
Task: grooming unruly mare.
Task: milking unruly cow.
Task: feeding dangerous man-eating sow.
Task: caring for mad elephant.
Task: riding buffaloes.
Task: incurring anger of ferocious animal.
Task: setting fire to brush wood near abode of sacred cobra.
Task: killing ferocious beast.
Task: killing murderous bird.
Task: overcoming savage buffalo.
Task: killing ox.
Task: killing fierce bull.
Task: overcoming elephant.
Task: mouse to fight single-handed with king's state elephant and destroy it.
Task: killing golden pig.
Task: killing devastating lion.
Task: killing devastating tiger.
Task: killing certain man.
Task: overcoming robbers.
Task: slaying king's son so that father will not die.
Task: uprooting man-devouring tree.
Task: duel.
Task: wrestling etc. with giant warrior.
Task: bringing an ogre to court.
Task: luring Thor into the power of giants.
Suitor test: killing monster.
Task: bringing back two heads of a giant.
Task: overcoming dragon.
Bringing fairies to court.
Suitor task: to make fairies dance before princess.
Task: raising a buried treasure.
Task: letting king hear something that neither he nor his subjects have ever heard.
Task: recovering money owed by a foreign king.
King asks favorite minister to show him a trick that he has never seen before.
Task: carrying a wagon axle which has broken a wheel.
Task: cutting down tree without scratching for stinging insects.
Task: preparing the food "Oh my".
Task: buying a coin's worth of eggs and another of "ay, ay."
Task: making pigs dance.
Task left by departing husband for virgin wife to accomplish: have a son whose real mother she is and whose real father he is.
Task: plowing field of vipers.
Task: blinding a witch.
Task: beheading witch, and bringing head to king.
Task: catching devastating witch who haunts king's best garden.
Task: combing hair of fairies.
Task: causing dry spring to flow again.
Task: making person laugh.
Task: causing silent person to speak.
Man whose laughter brings rain will not laugh: brought to laughter when people who, unknown to each other, have gone to sleep in same
dark room frighten each other.
Task: making jackal laugh (weep).
Task: having a shirt made by a woman free from trouble and worry.
Task: freeing king from clutches of magic doll.
Task: crossing weed-filled stream.
Task: picking ruby out of a tray filled with identical rubies.
Other tasks.
Task: planting beautiful garden.
Task: healing sick person.
Task: causing sickness to come to certain tribe.
Task: curing extraordinarily incurable ulcer.
Task: shouting from forbidden place.
Task: engraving shield with unique pattern.
Task: disenchantment.
Task: swine to shake bole of certain tree.
Task: swine to eat fish of certain waters.
Task: defending oneself alone against fifteen ships, sixty men.
Task: ridding city of thieves.
Task: discovering ring-thief.
Task: jumping over fire.
Task: going to bed with Odin, the underworld's king.
Task: unusual pasturing.
Task: shepherd in God's service tending sheep and following where they go.
Task: pasturing witch's cattle (really her daughters).
Task: squaring the lumber on a stone without blunting the axe.
Task: climbing extraordinary (high, thin) cliff.
Task: securing dishes which have been locked up in vault.
Task: producing seven pairs of chopsticks in seven plates.
Task: guarding.
Task: guarding palace at night that no one can enter or leave.
Task: guarding six sisters-in-law so that they do not joke or talk to anyone.
Task: knocking off single fruit from king's tree.
Quest assigned by father.
Quest assigned by king.
Quests assigned in order to get rid of hero.
Quest assigned because of feigned illness.
Quest assigned because of feigned dream.
Quest assigned by wife through appeal to husband's love for her.
Prince sulks until quest is accomplished.
Quest assigned because of longings of pregnant woman.
Quest for remarkable bird caused by sight of one of its feathers.
Quest for princess caused by sight of one of her hairs dropped by a bird (or floating on river).
Quest for man caused by sight of one of his hairs dropped by bird (or floating on river).
Quest for original of picture.
Quest for strong man caused by sight of his handiwork.
Quest assigned because of hero's knowledge of animal languages.
Quest for beautiful girl about whom parrots are heard speaking.
Quest assigned because of hero's boast.
Mother sends son to find unknown father.
Quest assigned because of dream.
Quest for explanation of dream.
King possessing one marvelous object sends hero on quest for another like it.
Assignment of quests--miscellaneous.
Quest assigned as payment for gambling loss.
Quest assigned as payment for magic object.
Quest assigned as punishment for murder.
Quest assigned as punishment by father of abducted girl.
Quest assigned by fairy.
Quest assigned prisoner.
Quest assigned as result of slander.
Quest assigned as payment for hospitality.
Quest assigned as punishment for curiosity.
Quest for adventure.
Old warrior longs for more adventure.
Prince a-hunting enters on quest.
Quest to undertake feats of valor.
Quest to recover one's honor through feats.
Quest to distant king for military aid.
Quest for a strong adversary.
Pursuit of rolling cake leads to quest.
Pursuit of rolling hoop leads to quest.
Pursuit of magic arrow leads to adventures.
Pursuit of rolling golden apple leads to quest.
Pursuit of rolling ball of yarn leads to quest.
Quest undertaken before hero will marry.
Quest undertaken by hero for vengeance.
Quest undertaken by hero to avenge his king.
Son goes out to avenge father's death.
Quests voluntarily undertaken--miscellaneous.
Quest undertaken by hero to fulfill promises.
Queen writes message on stone which hero finds: he goes in search of her.
Quest for marvelous thing seen in dream.
Large boot-supply for journey.
Directions on quest given by sun, moon, wind, and stars.
Directions on quest given by herdsmen (peasants).
Directions on quest given by queen.
Directions on quest given by maiden or woman in castle.
Directions on quest given by peasant and his wife.
Directions on quest given by child(ren) still in mother's womb.
Helpers on quest.
Old person as helper on quest.
Old woman helps on quest.
Old man helps on quest.
Relation as helper on quest.
Quest accomplished with aid of wife.
Quest accomplished with aid of brother in disguise.
Holy man as helper on quest.
Ascetic gives directions to hero on quest.
Fakir as helper on quest.
Quest accomplished with aid of prophet (sage, druid).
Supernatural creature as helper on quest.
Fairies as helpers on quest.
Quest accomplished with aid of giantess.
Griffin as helper on quest.
Demon as helper on quest.
Deity as helper on quest.
Goddess as helper on quest.
Animals help hero on quest.
Horse helper on quest.
Bird helper (adviser) on quest.
Porpoise as helper on quest.
Succession of helpers on quest.
Helpers on quest demand pay for advice.
Perilous path traversed on quest.
Quest over path bristling with sharp points (knives, axes, etc.
Quest over path guarded by dangerous animals.
Quest over path guarded by hags.
Quest over path guarded by giant.
Conjuring away obstacles on quest for lost wife.
Accomplishment of quest--miscellaneous.
Prince agrees to marry a servant girl if she will help him on a quest.
Objects of quest found in deserted castle where hero is served by unseen hands.
Quest accomplished by means of objects given by helpers.
Man with magic knowledge defeats his competitors in quest by misinforming them about the character of country they will be traveling
Seductive women attempt to divert quester.
Series of quests.
Hero returning from successful quest sent upon another.
Hero returning with berries sent back to bring tree.
Youngest brother alone succeeds on quest.
Unpromising hero succeeds in quest.
Riches the reward of questions solved on quests.
Forgiveness the reward of successful quest.
Quest to be accomplished in one day.
Sleep forbidden until quest is accomplished.
Object sought brings about death of assigner of quest.
Test of hero before journey to otherworld.
Quest to other world for samples of magic animals' food.
Quest to other world for relative.
Quest to other world for ancestor.
Quest to the other world to receive news of ancestor.
Quest to the other world to learn whether father is in heaven or hell.
Quest to other world to take letters to dead relatives.
Quest for relatives sold to the otherworld.
King sends hero to otherworld to carry message to king's dead father.
Journey to otherworld for magic objects.
Journey to other world to obtain a wife.
Quest for the location of paradise.
Quest: a crown from heaven.
Quest: God to be brought from heaven.
Quest to God for fortune.
Quest to upper world for fire.
Quest to Paradise to get oil to anoint dying father's body.
Quest of a deity.
Pregnant woman craving fish sends husband to heaven after lucky fishhook.
Quest for Cerberus in hell: to be brought to earth.
Quest for devils in hell; hero brings them back with him.
Quest to devil for objects.
Quest to devil in hell for return of contract.
Quest to hell for return of contract from deceased rich man.
Quest for three hairs from devil's beard.
Quest in hell for three dragon feathers.
Quest for money (treasure) in hell.
Quest to lower world for lost words.
Quest to confines of hell for blood of sorceress.
Quest to devil for answer to riddle questions.
Quest to Fortune to seek fortune.
Quest to morning star for answers to questions.
Quest to moon for answers to questions.
Quest for sun for answer to questions.
Quest to place where sun sets.
Quest to Mother of Time for answers to questions.
Quest to bring Soma (a wizard woman) from across the seven seas to a wedding.
Quests to fairyland.
Quest to fairyland at bottom of lake.
Quest to fairyland for precious jewel.
Quest to fairyland for magic object.
Quest to submarine monastery.
Quest to submerged island.
Quest to Plain of Wonders.
Quest to different other realms.
Quest to animal realm.
Quest to lions', elephants', and serpents' land for green stone.
Quest to land of snakes.
Quest to Bjarmaland.
Quest to giant's land.
Quest to land of cannibal giants.
Quest to see deity.
Quest for thread from lotus stalks growing on Vishnu's navel.
Quest to land where every raja dies.
Quest to the world of rakshasas.
Questions asked on way to other world.
Answers found in other world to questions propounded on the way.
Question (propounded on quest): Why has spring gone dry? Question (propounded on quest): Why does no one ever drink
water of two certain wells? Question (propounded on quest): Why does not a certain tree
flourish? Question (propounded on quest): Why does no one desire to
eat fruits of a certain tree? Question (propounded on quest): Why do the live stock die?
Question (propounded on quest): How can the prince be cured?
Question (propounded on quest): How can the princess be cured?
Question (propounded on quest): How can snake be cured from blindness?
Question (propounded on quest): How can the cripple be healed?
Question (on quest): How can the girl thus far avoided by suitors marry?
Question (on quest): Where is the lost key? Question (on quest): Where is the lost princess?
Question (on quest): When will a ferryman be released from his duty?
Question (on quest): When will a certain water-animal be freed from an annoyance?
Question (on quest): How can mice rid themselves of cats? Question (on quest): How can ants secure longer life?
Question (on quest): Where does Bras-de-Fer (Ver-sous-Terre) live?
Question (on quest): Have you see my prince? Question (propounded on quest): Why can't the dragon king
ascend to the sky? Question (propounded on quest): Why can't the child talk or
the dog bark? Question (propounded on quest): Why is the cow so severely
beaten every day by her calf? Question (propounded on quest): Is a poor shepherd known to
God? Question (propounded on quest): When can certain structure
be finished? Question (propounded on quest): How can a man and woman be
freed from their annoyance.
Question (propounded on quest): Why does kingdom go well by day and burn by night?
Quest for the most beautiful of women.
Quest for the most beautiful bride.
Quest for bride as handsome as the hero.
Quest for faraway princess.
Hero visits all islands to see if he can find woman to rival wife's beauty.
Quest for the most beautiful bouquet.
Quest for the finest of chains.
Quest for the best of bread.
Quest for the best of meat.
Quest for the worst of meat.
Quest for best-cooked dish.
Quest for the finest of linen.
Quest for best-worked handkerchief.
Quest for the smallest of dogs.
Quest for the finest of horses.
Quest for the richest person.
King seeks one richer (more magnificent) than himself.
Quest for bride richest and poorest.
Quest for the greatest of fools.
Quest for three persons as stupid as his wife.
Quest for person who can withdraw sword.
Quest for the spring of the biggest of three rivers east of Gardariki.
Quest for the strongest.
Quest for ornament (jewel, etc.) to match one already at hand
Liar escapes from devil: quest for greater liar.
Quests for the unique--miscellaneous.
Quest for only person who can cure certain sickness.
Quest for best cap.
Quest for the most beautiful rug.
Quest for the most beautiful ring.
Quest for magic objects.
Quest for things seen in dream.
Quest for marvelous water.
Quest for Water of Life (water which will resuscitate).
Quest for healing water.
Quest for the water of youth.
Quest for dancing water.
Quest for singing water.
Quest for marvelous pillar.
Quest for silver pillar covered with golden flowers.
Quest for marvelous remedy.
Quest for magic healing lantern.
Quest for draught of healing.
Quest for remarkable animal.
Quest for marvelous bird.
Quest for Bird of Truth.
Quest for three feathers of marvelous bird.
Quest for remarkable bird feathers.
Quest for golden bird.
Quest for jeweled golden cock.
Quest for golden peacock.
Quest for speaking bird.
Quest for fat of water blackbirds.
Quest for marvelous boar (pig).
Quest for purely white boar.
Quest for pig not farrowed.
Quest for pigs killed by night and revived by day.
Quest for marvelous cattle.
Quest for bald, white-headed cow.
Quest for cow with liver of tallow.
Quest for golden calf.
Quest for marvelous horse.
Quest for blue-eyed horse.
Quest for horse with peacock tail.
Quest for marvelous goat.
Quest for marvelous dog.
Quest for creature with a single horn mounting to heaven with single red hair on its head.
Quest for a large-headed worm.
Quest for sheep that is a hound by night and a sheep by day.
Quest for marvelous parts or possessions of animals.
Quest for golden fleece.
Quest for vulture's egg figured with golden letters.
Quest for Gorgon's head.
Quest for animal with golden chain.
Quest for magic pigskin.
Quest for oil of magic pig.
Quest for liver of thunder and heart of dragon.
Quest for honey from the royal bee-hive.
Quest for extraordinary plants (fruits, trees).
Quest for marvelous tree.
Quest for singing tree.
Quest for extraordinary plant.
Quest for plant of immortality.
Quest for magic tobacco.
Quest for extraordinary herb.
Quest for magic rice.
Quest for extraordinary fruit.
Quest for rejuvenating fruit.
Quest for marvelous fruit with princess inside.
Quest for marvelous apple.
Quest for magic apple.
Quest for dancing apple.
Quest for apple of life.
Quest for singing apple.
Quest for healing apple.
Quest for apples that are under the sea.
Quest for marvelous pear.
Quest for red pear.
Quest for berries from tree guarded by giants.
Quest for magic chestnut.
Quest for marvelous flower.
Quest for flower that sends forth its fragrance for hundred miles around.
Quest for flower of a tree inside the seventh of a series of forts.
Quest for gold flower.
Quest for wonderful but man-killing flower.
Quest for lotus flower.
Quest for sarai flower.
Quest for bakali flower.
Quest for jasmine flower.
Quest for branches of tree guarded by dragon.
Quest for the living harp.
Quest for gold mouth-harp.
Quest for magic cauldron.
Quest for sword of light.
Quest for Thunder Sword.
Quest for axe which sticks in beam outside a tower.
Quest for magic lantern.
Quest for magic iron rod.
Quest for magic wand.
Quest for castle of jewels.
Quest for ferule to fit staff.
Quest for magic spear (sword, etc.).
Quest for lost magic mirror.
Quest for stolen mirror.
Quest for comb.
Quest for marvelous gems.
Quest for covering that is kept in an emerald box by the well.
Quest for unpierced pearls.
Quest for magic stone.
Quest for magic ring.
Quest for Life Index.
Quest for marvelous cloth (garment).
Quest for garment of spider web.
Quest for beautiful saree for the queen.
Quest for silken turban on tree sixteen rivers and seven seas away.
Task: achieving kingship by bringing silk from bazaar.
Quest for roll of cotton driven by the wind.
Quest for marvelous objects or animals--miscellaneous.
Quest for marvelous golden wood for knife handle.
Quest for golden spinning equipment.
Quest for great tank of Indra (god).
Quest for mountain of gold.
Quest for marvelous game-board.
Quest for lion's milk.
Cubs furnish lion's (tiger's, etc.) milk to hero.
Quest for tiger's milk.
Quest for bear's milk.
Quest for wolf's milk.
Quest for wild dog's milk.
Quest for hare's milk.
Quest for cheese made from milk of wild white buffaloes.
Quest for devastating animals.
Quest for devastating buffaloes.
Quest for wonderful but vicious horse.
Quest for demon-owned cows.
Impossible quests.
Quest for the world's end.
Quest for place where sun comes up.
Quest for the bottom of the sea.
Quest for tears shed into the sea.
Quest for ornaments bride has worn in former birth.
Allegorical quests.
Quest: learning what death is.
Quest: learning what fear is.
Quest: learning what fear of Death is.
Quest: learning what anger is.
Quest for the anger of God.
Quest for bag of truths (lies).
Quest for trouble.
Quest for happiness.
Quest for immortality.
Quest for wisdom.
Quest for luck.
Enigmatical quests.
Quest for glass of all waters.
Quest for bouquet of all flowers.
Quest for the hazelnuts of ay, ay, ay.
Quest for dusty cloth.
Paradoxical quests.
Quest for wood neither crooked nor straight.
Quest for king's joy and woe.
Quest for unknown person.
Quest for unknown parents.
Quest for unknown father.
Woman seeks unknown father of her child.
Quest for unknown, vanished beloved.
Child seeks unknown parent.
Son seeks unknown father.
Boy twitted with illegitimacy seeks unknown father.
Child seeks unknown mother.
Boy twitted with illegitimacy seeks unknown mother.
Quest for unknown woman.
Quest for bride.
Quest for bride for king (prince).
Quest for bride for king like picture he has seen.
Quest for bride for oneself.
Quest for unknown woman whose picture has aroused man's love.
Quest for girl hero has seen in dream.
Quest for dangerous maiden as bride.
Quest for bride for dwarf.
Quest for Glass Princess.
Quest for clever woman.
Quest for princess transformed into skein of silk.
Quest for woman exactly like another.
Quest for persecuted woman.
Quest for princess hidden by father.
Quest for queen of fairies.
Quest for son of sinless couple.
Hero seeks his equal.
Quest for unknown son.
Quest for unknown bridegroom who has certain name and is only son among seven children of father.
Quest for unknown objects or places.
Quest for unknown magic words.
Quest for unknown story (epic).
Quest for unknown lines of poem.
Quest for unknown wonder.
Quest for unknown animal.
Quest for unknown puppy-hound.
Quest for lost persons.
Unspelling quest: journey to disenchant (free) captives.
Quest for stolen princess.
Quest for vanished daughter.
Quest for vanished wife (mistress).
Quest for vanished wife and son.
Quest for vanished husband.
Quest for husband who has been reincarnated as cat.
Quest for vanished lover.
Quest for lost sister.
Quest for lost father.
Quest for lost grandfather.
Quest for lost brother(s).
Quest for lost (stolen) family.
Quest for lost prince (king).
Quest for lost uncles.
King in quest of his prime minister who has left him in anger.
Quest for lost object.
Quest for lost horn.
Quest for missing ring.
Quest for lost bird.
Quest for lost ecclesiastical rule.
Quest: answer to certain question.
Question: What is it women most desire.
Quest for armor from a grave mound.
Quest for gold from a grave mound.
Quest to distant sage for advice.
Quest for person who has not known sorrow.
Heroes seek judgment as to which is greatest.
Quest for light-giving child.
Quest for enemies.
Quest for witch stepmother.
Quest for enemy's children.
Deity assumes frightful guises to frighten child.
Chief of dead assumes frightful guises to frighten visitors.
Ogress assumes frightful guises to frighten messengers.
Fear test: behaving as if enemy is coming in order to see who will flee and who will stay and fight.
Suitor tested by apparent threats to his person.
Fear test: serpent put in flour so that fearless youth kneads it into the dough.
Test: going without fear through a wilderness filled with all manner of beasts.
Fear test: staying in haunted house.
Fear test: staying in haunted house where corpse drops piecemeal down chimney.
Fear test: staying in haunted house where horse carcass drops down chimney.
Fear test: staying in haunted house infested by cats.
Fear test: night watch with magic cats.
Fear test: staying in enchanted castle at night where the devil gives a moral speech and prophesies.
Fear test: spending night in house (hall) haunted by demon (monster).
Fear test: spending night in church.
Fear test: going into the church at night and ringing the bell.
Fear test: staying under gallows at night.
Fear test: spending night by grave.
Fear test: taking boy to frightful enemy's tent.
Fear test: playing cards with devil in church.
Hero plays skittles with demons.
Fear test: cutting devil's fingernails.
Fear test: fighting with spirits.
Fear test: passing through door guarded by savage hound and armed soldier.
Fear test: undergoing terrifying experience out of doors on Hallowe'en.
Fear test: bringing from a hill, seized by a demon, the fattest of goats.
Fear test: stealing clothes from ghosts.
Fear test: playing game with reassembled dead man.
Fear test: eating and drinking from skulls.
Fear test: fetching skulls from a charnel house.
Fear test: keeping goal in hurling-match for corpses.
Fearless hero frightened by being awakened with cold water.
Fearless hero frightened by being awakened by eels put down his back.
Waking contest.
Test: speechless vigil in church.
Test: sitting up with corpse.
Vigil for dead father.
Vigil for dead father: youngest son alone endures frightful experiences.
Three-night watch over grave to guard man from devil.
Watch for devastating monster.
Watch for thieves in the king's garden.
Test: sleeping by princess three nights without looking at her or disturbing her.
Thumb cut and salt put on it in order to remain awake.
Dirk stuck into thigh in order to keep from sleeping.
Grains slowly munched in order to keep from sleeping.
Continual pricking with pin in order to remain awake.
Large fire and water for washing eyes as device of expectant lover.
Endurance test: long dancing.
Test: enduring hardship.
Endurance test: scalding mush scattered on heroine's naked body; rasp-tongued dogs lick wounds.
Test: sleeping naked on floor in cold.
Test: sewing clothes into boy's hands and tearing them off together with the skin.
Endurance test: hero maintains silence in the snake pit.
Hero pursues and kills fugitive in spite of bleeding wounds.
Test: long praying.
Test: repeating incantation continuously for months.
Heat test.
Heat test: swallowing red-hot stones.
Test: swallowing heated brass and iron ornaments.
Burning food test.
Smoke test.
Smoking test.
Cold test.
Poisoned food test.
Attempt to poison by druids.
Poisoned drink test.
Test: food with thorns.
Poisoned clothing test.
Test: bite of poisonous snake.
Clam test.
Killing trees threaten hero.
Bent tree test.
Clashing rocks test: hero to pass between them.
Spine test.
Test: dancing on sharp instruments.
Vain attempt to kill hero on stairway set with razors.
Wedge test.
Hanging test.
Plank test.
Precipice test.
Pit test.
Toboggan test.
Test: playing game with ferocious beast.
Bear demands that heroine play Blindman's Buff.
Drowning test.
Contest in enduring cold.
Contest in enduring cold: frost and the hare.
Contest in enduring cold: wind overcomes frost.
Contest in enduring heat.
Contest in crossing river of fire.
Contest in remaining under water.
Contest in enduring thirst.
Contest in fasting.
Bad character shown by the eyes.
Tests of generosity.
Which was the most generous--husband, robber, or lover? Which was most generous--husband, lover, or magician
(similar)? Contest in generosity.
Tests of patience.
Philosopher teaches son to beg before stone statues.
Test of patience: king accepts strong reproof and criticism.
Test of patience: those who wish to enter city gate must endure insults of old men there who mock them.
Man shows his patience by accepting blow in face with stool thrown by his superior in monastery.
Monk fails in test of patience.
Test of patience by asking irrelevant riddles.
Test of curiosity.
Test of curiosity: mouse in jug.
Test of curiosity: the clock.
Test of curiosity: the paternoster.
Tests of honesty.
Test of honesty: man entrusted with treasure.
Tests of fidelity.
Fidelity of servant tested.
Test of fidelity (loyalty) of guard.
Test of fidelity by feigning death.
Cock feigns death to see what hens will say about him.
Test of fidelity through submitting hero to temptations.
Test of fidelity through offering suspected assassin opportunity to commit the murder.
Fidelity in love tested.
Lover's fidelity tested by going to bed with mistress and only kissing.
Lover's fidelity tested by making love to maid.
Wife tests her husband's fidelity by tempting him in the guise of another woman.
Lover's fidelity tested by substituting maid in mistress's bed at assignation.
Old uncle tests nephew's fidelity by sleeping with his beloved.
Husband's (wife's) willingness to die for mate disappears when Death seems to arrive.
Old woman's willingness to die for daughter disappears when Death seems to arrive.
Rose given by supernatural wife to husband when he leaves for home will shed as many petals as times he thinks of her.
Test of fidelity by feigning sleep in same bed as calumniated hero or alone in the forest with him.
Tests of obedience.
Obedience of sons tested by offering them apple.
Adam's (Eve's) disobedience blamed: blamer immediately disobeys orders.
Old man contented till forbidden to leave city.
Pope tests women's disobedience: not to look into box.
Obedience of king's subjects tested by willingness to allow spear to be carried crosswise into houses.
King tests gardener's obedience by playing thief.
Tests of friendship.
Test of worthiness for friendship.
Apple test of worthiness for friendship.
Test of friendship: the half-friend.
Of three friends the least loved proves true in emergency.
Test of friendship: substitute as murderer.
Test of friendship: to go with one to death.
The hare with many friends.
Test of friendship: death feigned to test debtor friends.
Test of friendship: the imagined refusal.
Test of friendship: the power of money.
Sultan takes disguise of beggar to test friends.
Friends desert when man reports loss of his money.
Friends refuse to fight against each other.
Sword too heavy to lift against a friend.
Pregnant wife left in charge of friend.
Friendship kept up even during sons' jealousy and enmity.
Test of friendship: to take a slap publicly from friend.
Test of friendship: mourner says dead husband can be touched only by sinless person; volunteers for cremating body immediately
disperse.
Test of friendship: loyalty to condemned friend.
Tests of valor.
Tests of valor: tournament.
Single combat to prove valor.
Holmgang.
Fight with father's old friend, though only to mention who he is would assure the youth a friendly reception.
Combats at fords.
Test of valor: not flinching under a blow.
Test of valor: rousing servant's anger.
Test of valor worthy for kingship: taking possession of royal insignia placed between two ferocious lions.
Test of valor: fight with giant.
Test of valor: attack by warrior and hound.
Warriors battle against leader as test of valor.
Prince chooses shorter but more dangerous road.
Master tests disciple by asking him if he will be willing to plunge with him into the Indus.
Test of strength.
Test of strength: pulling up tree by roots.
Test of strength: cutting tree with one stroke.
Test of strength: lifting stone (fireplace, etc.
Test of strength: lifting sword.
Before undertaking rescue, bat tests strength by lifting stone.
Test of strength: breaking heavy glass bottle over loaf of rye bread.
Test of strength: prodigious jump.
Test of strength: heavy stone flung at boaster; he throws it back.
Test of strength: breaking spirited horse.
Strength contest: contestants stand with back to rock on opposite side, an iron ring around neck of each connected by chain.
Test of strength: breaking witch's back.
Test of strength: wrestling.
Test of strength: pushing out heavy ferry.
Test of strength: pulling in two iron bars passing through hole.
Task: destruction of iron castle.
Test of strength: shooting through seven iron plates with arrow.
Mighty-of-His-Mouth and Mighty-of-His-Hands decide to live together to test strength.
Test of skill.
Test of hospitality.
Tests of gratitude.
Test of gratitude: magician makes pupil believe himself superior.
Test for admission to warrior band.
Test of leadership.
Frightful meal as test of leadership.
Test of leadership (obedience): swallowing mouse without vomiting.
Test of the champion.
Test of championship: sitting on pillow covering egg without breaking egg.
Tests of character--miscellaneous.
Test of industry.
Man tests industry of prospective servant girl.
Test of sensitiveness.
Test of fertility.
Stone under fertile woman produces milk; under barren woman produces blood.
Religious tests.
Angel helpers in religious test.
Belief in Christianity tested.
Heathen swallowed by earth.
Loathly deed performed as evidence of Christian virtue.
Druid attempts to shake king's faith by magic manifestation.
Man commanded by saint to leap into fiery furnace: unharmed.
Religious personages tested.
Magic manifestation required as proof in test of saintliness.
Saint tested by visit of deity in disguise.
Test of worthiness for bishop: plowing without plowshare.
Power of Christianity tested.
Saint drinks poison without injury as proof of power of Christianity.
Saint's horse miraculously preserved as proof of power of Christianity before fairy.
Transformation by saint as proof of Christianity before druid.
Wizard (druid) burned, saint saved in test of power of Christianity.
Power of other religions tested.
Power of Judaism tested.
Test of steadfastness of love for God: though warned in dream man refuses to part with sacred stone.
Test of righteousness.
Ability to cross bridge as test of righteousness.
Test of repentance.
Test of repentance: culprit exposed to situation identical to that in which he sinned.
Tests of social position.
Social rank determined according to portion taken from cauldron of food.
Tests for noble blood.
Fruitfulness of nature as proof of kingly right.
King chosen by test.
Test imposed on young princes as candidates for throne.
Two deities test virtues of a king.
The burning forge (smithy): he who salvages anvil will be king.
He who wins maiden queen is king.
Tests of sight.
Test of sight: stepping stones.
Tests of possession of magic powers.
Test of magic powers: telling sex of unborn goat.
Test of skill for a fakir: heating iron and passing it through hands without burning them.
Test of divine favor.
Test of goddess' favor: man throws away his wife's jewel-box to see if she can regain it with the aid of goddess.
Test of goddess's favor: husband drowns his son to see if his wife's tutelary goddess can bring him back to life.
Test of sex: to discover person masking as of other sex.
Test of sex of girl masking as man.
Test of sex of girl masking as man: peas spread on floor.
Test of girl masking as man: nuts and corn spread on floor.
Test of sex of girl masking as man: spinning wheel brought.
Test of sex of girl masking as man: choosing flowers.
Test of sex of girl masking as man: ball thrown into lap.
Woman throws apple to man in woman's dress.
Test of sex of man masking as girl: jumping over pit (only man succeeds).
Test of sex of girl masking as man: nuts and apples offered.
Test of sex of girl masking as man: warned by a parrot, she picks only one flower.
Test of sex of man masking as girl: arms placed among baskets and war-trumpet sounded.
Test of heirship.
Health test.
Recognition of good health by hearing voice.
Recognition of good health by smoke rising from chimney.
Tests of time.
Time measured by worn iron shoes.
Time measured by fit of ring.
Tests of space.
Land measured according to amount within person's view.
Land measured according to amount encompassed during certain hours.
Test of cleanliness by being shaken to see if lice fall off.
Contest of dogs.
Litter of puppies tested by throwing them one by one at hanging hide of wild beast, and keeping the one that grips hide.
Man and king compete by letting their domestic animals fight.
Shooting contest.
Contest: spear-casting.
Hunting contest.
Goaling match between fairies and mortals as test of supremacy.
Foot-racing contest.
Death as penalty for losing foot-race.
Foot-race between fairy and mortal.
Foot-race between giant and mortal.
Test of memory.
Test of memory: Solomon asks Marchus question, receives answer;
Beauty contest.
Test for attractiveness to men.
Golden apple as prize in beauty contest.
Strangers umpire beauty contest.
Women to appear naked in beauty contest.
Contest between man and other being.
Contest between man and angel.
A Classification of Narrative Elements in Folktales, Ballads, Myths, Fables, Mediaeval Romances,
Exempla, Fabliaux, Jest-Books, and Local Legends
Indiana University Shipwrecked shepherd distrusts the sea.
Man bitten by snake fears snake-like rope.
Young ass avoids food eaten by animals before being slaughtered.
Young sparrows have learned to avoid men.
Old racehorse in mill laments vanity of youth.
Serpent (bird) having injured man refuses reconciliation.
Dove disregards experience and loses brood.
Animal learns through experience to fear men.
Tiger, jackal, and bear each learn to fear man.
Wisdom acquired from beating.
Counsels proved wise by experience.
Wise words of dying father.
"Consider the end": "Do not act when angry":
"Never attack anyone before unsheathing and returning sword three times":
Sleep before committing suicide.
"Do not draw your sword against the innocent": "Do not uncover weapon in an assembly":
"Do not shed the blood of women": "Control your anger at the beginning":
"Do not go where an old man has a young wife": "Do not marry a girl from abroad":
"Do not leave the highway": "Do not prefer a new road to an old one."
"Take side road rather than main one where three roads meet":
"A way short yet long": "Do not ask questions about extraordinary things":
"Do not cross a bridge without dismounting from your horse";
"Never wager more than a groat": "Do not bet":
"Do not visit your friends often": "Do not prolong a friendly visit."
"Do not lend out your horse": "Do not walk half a mile with a man without asking his
name": "Rue not a thing that is past":
"Never believe what is beyond belief": "Never try to reach the unattainable":
"If you wish to hang yourself, do so by the stone which I point out":
"Go to Goosebridge": "Stay at church till mass is finished":
"Do not trust the over-holy": "Start your journey early in the day":
"Prepare for night camp while it is still day": "Do not cross a swollen stream until it has run down":
"Do not tell a secret to a woman": "Rise earlier":
"Do not make a horse run down hill": "Do not keep bad company":
"Don't be too greedy in making a trade": "Do not adopt a child":
"Do not trust a ruler who rules by reason alone": "Keep head dry, feet warm, and eat meat":
"Never have to do with a woman unless wed to her": "Do not marry a woman before seeing her and finding her to
be your equal": "Do not marry more than one woman".
"Bathe by yourself and not in the common bathing place": "Move stool before sitting on it":
"When in a strange place look about you": "Do not sit on a bed without touching it first":
"Ruler should follow advice of majority" "Neglect not what four or five people say":
"Do not go alone on journey": "Do not take a woman's advice":
"May God spare you from an evil man or evil woman." "Do not travel without money":
Don't require honor from a strange country": counsel proved wise by experience.
"Be cautious before allowing yourself to fall asleep in a strange place":
"Sleep not in an inn": "A stranger does not close his eyes in sleep lest he close
them in death": "He who lies awake gains; he who sleeps loses":
"Before eating food at a strange place throw some at an animal and watch":
"A country not examined in disguise will always be ruined": "Lean upon no relation in the hour of distress":
"Do not undertake to be an arbitrator without being asked": "Do not make friends with a policeman (soldier)":
"You can only call your wife your own so long as she is with you":
"Do not send your wife for a long visit to her parents": "Don't do anything without investigation":
"Never give a cup made of a single ruby as a present to the king":
"Idleness begets woe; work brings happiness": "Do not stand and watch two people fighting":
Counsels proved wise by experience--miscellaneous.
Disciple who stays in a city where everything is sold at one price finds justice is not even there.
"Never be rude to a self-made man of low birth": "Hardened clay is hard to mold":
"Never publish a man's sin if you can help it": "Never dismiss and old servant for his first fault":
"When a man attacks you, kill him whether he be king or prince":
Boy who says "I know" gets into all sort of difficulties; now says "I don't know."
"Nothing happens that does not work for one's good": "He who throws himself against a wave is overthrown by it":
Precepts of the lion to his sons.
Precept of the lion to his sons: beware of man.
Precept of the lion to his sons: honor the woods.
Precept of the lion to his sons: keep peace with the neighbors.
Merchants try honesty for a year and find that it pays.
Fools learn to be peaceable.
Why great man plays with children.
Enemies can be won more by kindness than cruelty.
Man learns the fear of Death by meeting Life.
Encounter with clever children (woman) dissuades man from visit.
Cleverness of men disguised as peasants dissuades rivals from dispute.
Arrow as man's message shows lion how terrible man himself must be.
Blind man who feels young wolf recognises his savage nature.
Odor of the wine cask.
Sight of deformed witches causes man to release wife from spinning duty.
King observes retaliation among animals: becomes just.
Understanding of universality of death from watching animals prey on one another.
King descends to bottom of sea in glass barrel to learn wisdom from observing fish.
Army saved from ambush by observation of birds' movements.
Ruler learns lesson from the example of an exiled king.
Unscrupulous conduct of business learned from observation of usurer's own practices and used against him.
Ruler learns lesson from seeing city governed by king as uncharitable as he.
Hare instructs his sons to use their eyes to advantage.
Observation of dying people for a year takes man's thoughts from lust.
Ducklings take to water from instinct.
Birds having learned their possible dangers are forced from nest by mother.
Drops of water make hollow in stone: thus repeated impressions penetrate mind.
Lazy pupil determines to be more diligent by watching man building home one wattle at a time, and seeing how water fills hole one drop at
a time.
Three thousand parables of Solomon.
Solomon proves to his mother the inferiority of woman's wisdom.
Minister taught by parable to make obeisance to the new king.
The dishes of the same flavor.
Monotony of restriction to one's favorite food.
Society is like a dish: must be properly mixed.
To each his appropriate food.
Parable comparing canons to a stew made of their individual meals.
Priest walks in the mud.
The gray and the black hairs: enemies reconciled.
Picking up water thrown on ground no harder than the undoing of slander.
Chair over fiery pit as figure of precariousness of life.
Rocks falling together and thread entering needle's eye suggest sexual intercourse: hence its beginning.
Men shamed for their cowardice by woman standing naked before them.
Wisdom taught by parable: cloud which gives rain to thirsting crops or drops it in ocean.
Monk shames accuser by telling parable.
Boy saves life by showing father foolishness of plowing up his crop.
Difficulty of thinking of God when occupied with worldly affairs.
Fool digs holes in edge of road.
Man kills nest of ants: so God punishes man.
Lotus flower flourishes as long as it is in water: king should not leave castle.
Stones shaken in jar: difficulty in learning many dialects.
Wisdom (knowledge) taught by parable.
Relative pleasures of sexes in love taught by parable.
Father bequeathes four pots to sons: Crow drops pebbles into water jug so as to be able to
drink.
Bear learns how to catch crabs with his hairy claws.
Ungrateful son reproved by naпve action of his own son: preparing for old age.
Ungrateful son reproved by naпve action of his own son: preparing for old age (wooden
drinking cup or bowl).
Undutiful son rebuked by father.
Naпve remark of child: 
"You forgot to strike mother." Seducer about to seduce mother of child refrains when child
wisely remarks that he is sad because his father has left his mother exposed to such dangers.
Wisdom of child decides lawsuit.
Clever prince overrules seemingly just decisions of king.
Learning the virtue of patience from children.
Parents's misdeeds innocently betrayed by children.
The wine needs no further water.
Adulteress betrayed by little child's remark.
Child unwittingly betrays his mother's adultery.
Mouse teaches her child to fear quiet cats but not noisy cocks.
Animal gives wise example to man.
One wild goat steps over another.
Ass refuses to drink after it has had enough.
Trained deer drinks wine till he breaks his leg but thereafter abstains.
Woman will not follow donkey on safe path: attacked by robbers.
Squirrel tries to dip out lake with his tail: difficulty of reforming the world.
Big fish eat little: robber will plunder weak neighbors.
Animal behavior teaches man what to avoid.
Cock's second mate lets her stepchildren starve: woman warns husband accordingly.
Departing animal gives man counsels.
Crow inspects the three worlds in search of happiness.
Wisdom learned from example of insects.
Youth educated by seven sages.
Lack of proper education regretted.
House dog blames master for teaching him lazy habits.
Man blames master for not correcting him in youth.
Untrained colt result of master's neglect.
Well-trained kid does not open to wolf.
Hostile dogs made friendly by having them fight common enemy, the wolf.
Educated men as choice company.
King prefers educated men as company.
Child confined to keep him in ignorance of life.
Wisdom from old person.
Wisdom of hidden old man saves kingdom.
Old men preferred as councillors.
Wisdom from god as old (one-eyed) man.
Wisdom from old man: always say, "if it pleases God." Wisdom (knowledge) from sage (teacher).
Cynical philosopher lives in tub.
Advice from dervish.
Philosopher instructs youth regarding conduct.
Philosopher consoles woman for loss of son.
Wisdom from philosopher: give separate greetings to infants, youths, and old people.
Wisdom from philosopher: worldly honor like shadow.
Wisdom from holy man.
Holy man's prayer reforms rich man.
Hermit explains why anger is sin.
Wise words of dying father.
Wise words of father.
Dying saint leaves wise message to followers.
Wisdom (knowledge) from women.
Hero directed on journey by princess.
Serpent directed on journey by his beautiful wife.
King has amours with great men's wives so as to learn secrets from them.
Caesar's scorn of his wife's advice leads to disaster.
Wife as adviser.
Wife of usurer saves husband through her prayers.
Wise words of dying woman (queen).
Knowledge from mysterious women met in the forest.
Wisdom from harlot to a king.
Wisdom from fools.
Wisdom from fool: make peace before rather than after the war.
Wisdom from fool: absurdity of tight-rope walker's performance.
Wisdom from fool: the present returned.
Wisdom from fool: heaven refused.
Wisdom (knowledge) from dream.
Deity appears in dream and gives instructions or advice.
Wisdom from dream: the leper with the cup of water.
Fate of parents revealed in dream.
Dream advises against the popularizing of science.
Wisdom from angel.
Solomon pays heed to angel's warning.
Trial rehearsed before stick in the ground as judge.
Wisdom acquired by hanging in a tree.
Wisdom purchased.
Man buys a pennyworth of wit.
Man to bring wife a purseful of sense.
Fool is told to get a pottle of brains.
One eye exchanged for wisdom.
Good counsels bought.
Wisdom from God.
Tree of knowledge.
Wisdom from books.
Wisdom from books bought at great price.
Wisdom from books of the antediluvians.
Wisdom from continual reminder of foolishness in the past.
Inscription on walls for condensed education.
Proverbial wisdom: counsels.
Counsel: if you take it you will be sorry; if you don't you will also be sorry.
King questions six doctors.
King questions six doctors: what do you like best of all on earth? That man has not what he wishes to have.
King questions six doctors: what do you like best of all on earth? That all joys are mixed with sorrow.
King questions six doctors: what do you like best of all on earth? That all evil and hypocrisy will have an end.
King questions six doctors: what must you most marvel at on earth? That those who are most respected are the biggest fools.
King questions six doctors: what must you most marvel at on earth? That those who speak of spiritual matters are usually the most depraved.
King questions six doctors: what must you most marvel at on earth? That man lives in a state in which he cannot die.
Other maxims.
Crow flying away says, "A wise man remains not in the place of calamity; but a fool stays there, and sups fear and sorrow."
Proverbial wisdom: "Seek to win over the accuser, so that he causes you no annoyance."
Account of punishments prepared in hell brings about repentance.
Wisdom taught by suicidal example.
Good and bad in all books.
Wisdom from young man.
Wisdom from evil spirits.
Wisdom from brother-in-law.
Wisdom from robbers (thugs) who disguise selves and show cruel princess how she should treat her husband.
Other means of acquiring wisdom (knowledge)--miscellaneous.
Humble Brahmin teaches king the difference between "mine" and "thine.
Wisdom learned in underground kingdom: the passions of a human being could not be satisfied on earth.
Wisdom from neighbors.
Wisdom from fasting.
Possession of wisdom.
The years not counted.
Varieties of wisdom.
"Forty-nine gates of wisdom" Seventy-two kinds of wisdom.
Wisdom wins contest of wisdom and wealth.
Minister's clever daughter-in-law uses wisdom to defeat Brahmin's wealth.
Wisdom lost by accepting bribes and gifts.
Acquisition and possession of wisdom--miscellaneous.
Wise men.
Solomon as wise man.
Other biblical heroes as wise men.
Wise nations.
Wisdom from "Children of the East." Wisdom from Egypt.
Wisdom from the Greeks.
Wisdom from the Hebrews.
Hobson's choice: choose what is put before you or nothing.
Choice between eggs: one egg or none.
Four choices, all of which are evil; man to make one choice only.
Choice: free poverty or enslaved wealth.
Philosopher chooses poverty with freedom.
Man gives all his wealth away, for it is better to die than to give up virtue.
Town mouse and country mouse.
Fly jeers at king's elephant for his lack of freedom.
Choice: plainness with safety or grandeur with danger.
Ass envies horse in fine trappings.
Choice: loss of beauty or speech.
Choice: suffering in youth or old age.
Present evil preferred to change for worse.
Don't drive away the flies.
Don't set a hungry guard over food.
King refuses to exile gossipers.
Do not pluck off the well-fed leeches.
Old man chooses to be annoyed by occasional and loud chirp of swallows than by never-ending but soft chirp of sandpipers.
Oxen decide not to kill butchers, since inexpert killers might replace them.
Old woman prays for safety of cruel tyrant for fear a worse one will succeed him.
Heathcock prefers home with hardships to travel in foreign lands.
Monk goes to wilderness to escape work on material things.
Choice of deaths.
Army faces enemy rather than the anger of their king who would kill them if they returned in flight.
Lamb prefers to be sacrificed in temple rather than to be eaten by a wolf.
Crab would rather be killed outright than imprisoned and starved.
Soldier asks to be stabbed in chest.
Early death with fame preferred.
Saint chooses to die "after pride of youth" and before "misery of old age."
Captivity preferred to death.
Unsatisfactory life preferred to death.
Trickster overhears man praying for death to take him; Escaped lamb delivers himself to shepherd rather than to
slaughter.
Discontented ass longs for death but changes mind when he sees skins of dead asses at a fair.
Enemies make peace rather than slay each other.
Lion and wild boar make peace rather than slay each other for benefit of vulture.
Hostile dogs made friendly by having them fight common enemy, the wolf.
Choice: small injustice permitted rather than to cause troubles of state.
King overlooks wife's unfaithfulness rather than to cause troubles of state.
Senator overlooks wife's adultery rather than impair his reputation.
Man rebukes servants for telling him of his wife's unfaithfulness.
King chooses small inconvenience of personal troubles to great troubles for his kingdom.
Man would rather pay 500 florins he did not owe than have it said he did not pay debts.
Rescue alone from shipwreck chosen over drowning with goods.
Choice between evils: pay tribute or lose both money and life.
Choice: apparent injustice over greater wrong.
Angel and hermit.
Angel explains to hermit why God lets a sinner die in peace and have big funeral while holy hermit is slain by a wild beast.
God punishes many men because of one sinner, like a man who kills hive of bees for stinging of one.
Angel in form of young man shows skeptical hermit that ways of providence are inscrutable.
Youth made lame: had kicked his mother.
Lion sent to kill a man: frees him from possibility of sinning and sojourn in purgatory.
Angel takes cup from old man.
Angel (Jesus) kills man.
Angel kills man because he loves his child too much.
Saint gives liberally to gambler, little to beggar.
Forestman who longs to do evil is sent to hell: writer, who repents, is sent to heaven.
Evil mother has fine funeral, good father poor.
Difficult choice between relatives.
Choice of freeing one son: adopted son or long-missing son.
Choice: blind son with long life or healthy son with short.
Choice: foolish son always with him or four wise daughters who will leave him.
Death preferred to other evils.
Death preferred to captivity.
Death preferred to dishonor.
Choice between evils--miscellaneous.
Choice: staying at home with loving wife or going to tavern and having unfaithful wife.
Sheep and ignorant shearer.
Choice: a big piece of cake with my curse or a small piece with my blessing.
Better send an ugly woman to the devil than a pretty one.
Choice between bad master, bad official, or bad neighbor.
Bad choice between poor and miserly man.
Rower prefers to be stoned by his master rather than remain out in the storm.
Contentment with evil master for fear of worse successor.
Weaver prefers master with one hedgehog.
Man retains questionable bride for fear of getting one who is worse.
The smaller the evil the better.
Take money instead of revenge.
Prisoners given choice between emasculation and blinding.
God's punishment: the sinner may have twelve years of famine or twelve hours of heavy rainfall.
Physical pain preferred to poverty.
Wisdom chosen above all else.
Solomon, permitted by God to make any request, asks wisdom.
Choice between love and wisdom.
Health chosen as the most precious thing.
Choice between desire and duty.
Fruitful tree chosen.
Athena chooses olive tree because of fruitfulness.
Peasant leaves honey tree standing.
Useful wins contest over beautiful.
Contest between rose and amaranth: worth lies not in beauty.
Pine and thornbush dispute as to their usefulness.
Fox and panther contest in beauty.
Peacock proved to be bad king.
Peacock and crane in beauty contest.
Contest in beauty between swallows and crows (ants and flies): worth lies not in beauty.
Choice of a learned crow: a dead cat better than a golden crown.
In dividing property clever younger brother takes hind part of buffalo, upper part of tree, and use of curtain during night.
Usefulness better than speed.
Dog and hog dispute over their children: worth lies not in speed.
Goodness preferred to beauty.
Father with handsome son and hideous daughter.
Useful and ugly preferred to expensive and beautiful.
Millstone preferred to jewels.
King who experiences the cultural civilization of an empire in dream would rather be poor and primitive.
Strength preferred to cleverness.
Man criticizes the devil because his deeds are not fair.
Hero, despising weapons, fights with fists alone.
Goodness preferred to wealth.
Man advised to choose good poor man for his daughter's husband rather than rich man.
Practical knowledge more vital than theoretical.
The bookman and the boatman: each ignorant of other's work.
Learned person worth two unlearned.
Loudest mourners not greatest sorrowers.
Noisy things often empty.
Fox and noisy but empty drum.
Little coin in empty bottle noisy.
Among many vain words may be found some of wisdom.
Apparent beauty may be of the least importance.
Choice between short and dangerous or long and sure way.
Choice between flattering lies and unflattering truths.
Raven drowns his young who promise to aid him when he becomes old.
Quality of offspring preferred to quantity.
"Only one, but a lion".
Heed not the past.
Count only the waves before you.
Do not ask: "Why were the former days better than the present ones?"
Not what you were but what you are counts.
Wasp twits butterfly with coming from ugly chrysalis: unimportant where you come from.
Present possessions preferred to future possibilities.
A bird in the hand foolishly given away in hope of greater gain.
Today's catch of fish traded for prospective larger catch tomorrow.
Little fish in the net kept rather than wait for uncertainty of greater catch.
Lion leaves sleeping hare to follow the shepherd.
Present possessions preferred to future.
Don't injure yourself to insure your family's future.
Man wagers he can run with his head off.
Man to be reforged chooses present unhappiness.
Children choose father they know rather than real father they do not yet know.
Man prefers servant girl who is present to her absent mistress.
Soldier prefers to live rather than die and be avenged on enemy.
Weight of bodily member chosen rather than its loss.
Fox prefers to bear weight of his tail rather than give part of it to ape.
High wages bring expensive living.
Barber leaves inexpensive village for high wages in city.
In spite of master's advice disciple stays in country where everything has cheap price.
Wise man refuses income of half a kingdom since expenses will outweigh gain.
Man refuses cure which brings greater inconvenience.
Drunkard refuses cure of fever if it is to take away his thirst.
What one has is neglected in search for other things.
The monkey and the lost lentil.
Host wants to learn Hebrew even at risk of forgetting his own language.
The valuable neglected for the interesting.
Herdsman neglects his she-goats in favor of wild-goats.
Man leaves farming for fishing.
Better be content with what you have, than try to get more and lose everything.
Wealth and glory sacrificed for freedom and virtue.
Man refuses vast wealth because with it will come covetousness.
King lays aside crown since it brings too many cares.
Prince chooses exile and honor to foul life at his father's court.
Rich merchant is poorer in happiness than poor man.
Man refuses rich marriage with house filled with dangerous wild animals.
Choices: small inconvenience, large gain.
Bodily member(s) sacrificed to save life.
Beaver sacrifices scrotum to save life.
Inconvenience disregarded when booty is in sight.
Wolf does not mind the dust.
Snake is willing to suffer the indignity of serving frog king as mount because frog king gives him frogs to eat.
Slight inconvenience in weather, large gain.
The widow's meal.
Less inconvenience in fighting though tired than in losing all for a little rest.
Priest sells his donkey because worry for its safety distracts him from prayer.
Small inconvenience, large gain--miscellaneous.
Solomon refuses water of immortality for himself when he cannot have it for his possessions also.
Ape throws away nut because of its bitter rind.
No time for minor fights when life is in danger.
Bull refuses to fight goat.
King ridiculed for inventing trifle of musical instrument but praised for constructing a great mosque.
Kind foster-parents chosen rather than cruel parents.
Lamb chooses her foster-mother, the she-goat.
Scarcity of real friends.
"A friend is known in need." Socrates builds himself a little house.
Great refuse to associate with lowly.
Boar refuses to fight with lowly ass.
Zeus refuses wedding present from snake.
Prince refuses to play with common children.
Noble poets refuse to associate with truly good poet because of his lowly birth.
Peasant ashamed of being thrown off by ass.
Wolf tries to make friends with lion: killed.
Dolphin and whale scorn crab as peacemaker.
Laurel and olive tree scorn thornbush as umpire in their dispute as to who is most useful.
Mouse on lion's mane.
Knight disregards insult by servant.
King refuses to quarrel with bird.
Leopard ashamed of having been bitten by lizard.
Rich man refuses to associate with poor sister.
Profitable association of great and lowly.
Prince of democratic tastes chosen.
Unprofitable association of unequals.
Lion licks sick man, who is thereby disgusted.
Marriage with equal or with unequal.
Wife chosen instead of fairy mistress.
Prince prefers first love to princess he later marries.
Unsuccessful marriage of jackals and turtles (different habits).
One's own kind preferred to strangers.
Bird refuses to maintain friendship with bird of different habits.
Man prefers to live with ordinary rather than with pious man.
Subordination of weak to strong.
Lion as king makes ass his lieutenant.
Lion makes lame goat his lieutenant.
Stupid fear company of clever.
Jackal realizes that the partridge was too clever for him and leaves.
Weak fear company of strong.
Earthen and brazen pots in river.
Buffalo refuses tiger's invitation to dinner.
Association of rat with cat ceases as soon as mutual danger has passed.
Association of mouse with cat ceases as soon as mutual danger has passed.
Friendship of snake and frog ceases when snake wants to eat frog.
Association of cow and tiger: tiger eats cow as soon as she is hungry.
Association of tiger and crane.
Association of strong and weak--miscellaneous.
Association of swan and swallow: swan unable to fly away from danger.
Associating with a bad friend is fatal: swan and crow.
Profitable association of young and old.
Old ox yoked with young ox.
Foolish association of young and old.
Foolish youth in love with ugly old mistress.
Foolish marriage of old man and young girl.
Contagiousness of bad company.
Ass buyer returns ass which has associated with lazy companions.
Stork killed along with cranes.
God of wealth in bad company.
Mirror begrimed by snail.
Bad associates bring death to bishop.
Harm of association with flatterers.
Senseless debate of the mutually useful.
The belly and the members.
Tail and head of serpent quarrel as to usefulness.
Fortune, Intellect, Knowledge, and Health dispute as to which is the greatest.
Debate of tongue and other bodily members.
Common wives of man debate as to which has helped him most.
Tobacco, pipe, and match debate usefulness to smoker.
Deer, opossum, and snake each render indispensable aid to man.
Rice, wheat, and dal dispute as to which is the best.
Dispute of hammer and anvil.
Wealth and wisdom dispute as to who is greater.
Elephant and ape debate about superiority.
Unnecessary choices of belief.
Unnecessary choice of gods.
Unnecessary choice of philosophies.
Unnecessary choice of religion.
Father leaves sons three jewels--Christianity, Judaism, Mohammedanism.
Father gives son three rings.
Unnecessary choice: to go uphill or downhill.
Unnecessary choice: praying or reading.
Senseless debates about usefulness.
Pomegranate and apple tree dispute as to which is worth most.
Senseless debate: which is the greater, St. John the Baptist or St. John the Evangelist?
Inflicters rather than receivers of wounds chosen.
King advised to marry maid rather than widow.
Woman refuses second marriage.
Woman refuses second marriage.
Widow refuses second marriage so her brother cannot kill a second husband.
Better to marry ugly than fair wife.
Better to marry a man lacking money than money lacking a man.
Young man advised to choose as wife a girl whose mother was chaste.
Choice: to do that which one knows or to learn something.
Enjoyment preferred to wealth.
Three sins of the hermit.
Death preferred above God and Justice.
Tame dog prefers food basin to fleeing hare.
Fox had rather meet one hen than fifty women.
Old sweetheart chosen in preference to new.
Little men preferred to big men.
Choice: death and revenge preferred to life.
Monk chooses solitude and loneliness to company and temptation.
Choice of friend over mistress.
Eagle prefers own offspring to changeling.
One should not attempt to change his color.
Negro tries in vain to be washed white.
Animal should not try to change his nature.
Crab comes ashore: killed by fox.
Kite tries to neigh like a horse.
Camel tries in vain to dance.
Ass tries in vain to play lyre.
Wolf tries in vain to be doctor.
Crow tries to imitate partridge's walk.
Mouse, bird, and sausage keep house together.
Elephant, giraffe, snake, and ant try keeping house together: requirements different.
Ass tries to get a cricket's voice.
Lizard tries to make himself as long as snake.
Fox tries to mask as dove, but loses all thoughts of murder.
Camel and jackal exchange food: camel is led by his good friend to thorny fruit and thorn sticks in his throat.
Frog wants to be shod like a horse.
Jackal accidentally made king but joins other jackals in howling at night.
Snake wants to act as pet like parrot: killed.
Frogs want to collect honey like bees.
One should let well enough alone.
Birds seeking richer lands are nearly all killed.
Barber tries unsuccessfully to become a trader.
One should not be too greedy.
Kite tries to carry off so many partridges that he drops them all.
Wolf tries to eat bowstring.
Greedy man keeps demanding one more thing from complacent man;
Greedy pig looks up into tree for figs.
Greedy man dissatisfied with gold looks for jewels; Fowler wants two rubies as ransom for a caught goose;
Peacock spends so much time preening for coronation that birds become impatient and make the owl king instead.
Good shepherd shears his sheep; does not skin them.
Intemperate zeal in truth-telling.
Cocks who crow about mistress's adultery killed.
Bird warns mistress against committing adultery: gets neck wrung.
Fool given the truth on his back.
Doctor loses a horse for the sake of the truth.
Man asked to tell truth says that his host, his hostess, and the cat have but three eyes between them.
Magpie tells a man that his wife has eaten an eel, which she said was eaten by the otter.
Only youngest son tells king truth when asked where they got their food: banished.
Honest servant tells people that shop does not have many customers: dismissed.
Intemperate pugnacity.
Noblemen who quarreled over a device.
Noblemen being ruined by long lawsuit decide wisely to join their families in marriage and save their fortunes.
Bishop fond of lawsuits is ordered by king to settle them: bishop pleads for a few to be left so that he will have something to live for.
Serpent (weasel) tries to bite a file.
Helmet left for woman to quarrel with.
Brothers compose quarrel and save umpire's fee.
Boast at home.
Intemperance in work.
Aesop with the unbent bow.
Ruler interrupts meeting of Senate to amuse his small son.
Intemperance in service.
Intemperance in obedience.
Cum grano salis.
Intemperance in honesty.
St. George teaches the poor man, "Who steals somewhat and lies somewhat will be rich."
Forget God for five years and you will become wealthy.
Intemperance in undertaking labor.
Monk discouraged by large amount of work to be done persuaded to undertake but a small amount each day.
True penance for even a day is effective.
Intemperance in sacrificing.
Intemperance in pursuit.
Man tracking gorilla sees animal's strength.
Cow-herd looking for cattle thief recognizes him in the lion.
Intemperance in charity.
Man resuscitates a lion which devours him.
Intemperance in worship.
Intemperance in fasting.
Fool fasts on roof till he becomes so weak he falls off.
Avoid hasty judgment.
When in anger say the alphabet.
King given three wheels to control his anger.
King in anger punishes misdeed on Easter day.
Avoid hasty punishment.
Man has disinterested party punish servant for him lest he himself be unfair in his anger.
Master when angry will not punish servant who has ruined him.
King restrained from hasty judgment by being told story.
Judge not that you be not judged: thus judge upbraided when he is later accused in court and claims mercy.
Answer questions of a fool the next day.
Unpaid servant refuses to blame master: later rewarded.
Wisdom of deliberation in fight.
Bravest know how to wait.
Foolishness of noise-making when enemies overhear.
Wolf as dog's guest sings.
Paramour who insists on quarreling with mistress about escape caught by her husband.
Monk's enemies quarrel and thus save him.
Drones dispute possession of honey.
Kites and crows quarrel over division of wounded fox.
Foolishness of premature coming out of hiding.
Hidden goat discovered by his horn protruding above ground.
Hidden stag discovered when he begins to eat grapevine too soon after hunters have passed.
Caution in eating.
Clever girl refrains from eating figs which would bring on magic sleep.
Wise man before entering a quarrel considers how it will end.
Wise man considers whom he is attacking.
Flea and fever exchange night-lodgings.
Wise fear of the weak for the strong.
Frogs fear increase of sun's power which will dry up all their puddles.
Frogs fear defeated bull.
Destruction of enemy's weapons.
The swallow and the hemp-seeds.
Snake gives away magic pills later used to kill him.
Preventing the birth of enemies.
Wise man destroys serpent's eggs.
Swallow advises hen against hatching out serpent's eggs.
Prevention of hostility by inspiring fear in enemy.
Snake complains to Zeus that people step on him.
Uniting against a common enemy.
Two sheep kill a fox who has licked up the blood they have spilled in a fight.
Sheep-dogs stop quarreling to hunt wolf who has raided the flock.
Enemy brothers unite to fight a common enemy.
Prevention of hostilities by agreeing to demands while in danger.
Prevention of hostilities by disarming the suspect.
Dissuasion from suicide.
Crab takes hold of heron's neck and fearing attack cuts neck and kills him.
King takes measures against assassination.
King to avoid possible assassination singes his beard rather than have barber shave him.
King to avoid possible assassination has queen's quarters searched before he enters.
Escaping before enemy can strike.
One bird escapes as hunter bends his bow; other remains and is shot.
Foolishness of surrendering weapons.
Lion suitor allows his teeth to be pulled and his claws to be cut.
Robbers persuaded to give hero sword with which they are afterwards killed.
Care against future tyranny.
Frogs demand a live king.
Kite as king of chickens.
Lion as king of animals reinstated after elephant is tired.
Avoiding places which have been fatal to others.
Fox sees all tracks going into lion's den but none coming out.
Avoiding power of future enemy.
Birds flee from cuckoo who, they believe, will later become a hawk.
Disregard advice of your enemy.
Palamides, having injured Ulysses, seeks advice from him.
Bird hears voices from within unhatched eggs and flies away: voices plot to dine on their bird-mother when they are born.
Avoiding enemy's revenge.
Avoid enemies' revenge either by making peace and friendship or by killing them all.
Advice not to rob women while they are alone, for fear of returning husbands' revenge.
Care against future imprisonment.
Monkeys planning to found a city desist lest with walls up it will be easier to catch them than before.
Inattention to danger.
Throstle giving all attention to sweet fruits is caught by bird catcher.
Man inattentive to the danger of drowning enters water to save treasure and is drowned.
Inattention to warnings.
Frog persists in living in puddle on road.
Swallows warn other birds against roosting in tree with glue.
Man disregards priest's warning that he will seduce his wife.
Warnings against certain peoples.
Hector warns Trojans against attacking the stronger Greeks.
Don't play tricks on Gascons.
Approaching danger too familiarly.
Birds discuss the trap.
Fox jeers at fox-trap.
Avoiding things which are harmful by nature.
Thornbush blamed by fox for wounding him.
Care in selecting the creature to carry one.
Youth trusts self to horse over which he has no control.
Tortoise lets self be carried by eagle.
Crane persuades fish to let him change him from one lake into another: he eats fish.
Practical and impractical defences.
Belling the cat.
Defences by strengthening one's own weakest spots.
Ears stopped with wax to avoid enchanting song.
Cotton put in ears so as not to hear abusive words.
Defence when one needs it most.
Armor ordered thin in front and thick in back, since it would be most needed in flight.
Defences in and out of season.
Wild-boar sharpens tusks when no enemy is in sight.
Man decides to make himself strong in peaceful times rather than wait until attacked.
Man slays another in order not to be slain himself.
Son slays father in order not to be slain himself.
Youthful fencer yields to infuriated opponent who has picked up a pestle.
Foolishness of king's taking a washerman for chief minister;
Alliances which make both parties more vulnerable.
Rat and frog tie paws together to cross marsh.
Jackal and leopard tie tails together for mutual protection.
Foolishness of alliances with the weak.
Foxes desert their allies, the hares, when they foresee defeat by the eagle.
Foolishness of attacking real allies.
Ass turns on his driver who would save him from falling over the precipice.
Tame doves close wild ones in trap and thus help common enemies.
Tame fox helps dogs against wild foxes.
Alliances with the strong.
Fox with lion protector goes hunting alone and is killed.
Foolishness of taking on too strong a partner: crow crowds sparrow out of its nest.
Tortoise joins peacock in dance.
Victorious ally feared by others.
Alliances with the intelligent.
Man, lion, and bear in pit.
Forethought in alliances -- miscellaneous.
Provision for the future.
Planting for the next generation.
King improves kingdom before leaving it to his sons.
Necessity of work.
Dervish who stops work.
King (queen) teaches children to work at all tasks to prepare them for life's possible hazards.
Planning for the greater office.
Looking for the keys of the abbey.
"Eat small fish now if you wish larger ones later." Safe provision for life not to be lightly surrendered.
Priest must give up his charge or his mistress.
Acquisition of wealth.
Be diligent and spend little: how to become wealthy.
Wealth is most important.
In time of plenty provide for want.
Ant and lazy cricket (grasshopper).
Improvident mouse eats grain stored for famine.
King for a year provides for future.
Wise man stores grain against coming famine.
Industrious ant works always at his harvest to keep it dry.
Food alone keeps off hunger.
City without provisions but with much money starves.
Make use of proper seasons for crops.
Lazy boy vainly asks God of the Seasons to delay the plowing season.
Kindness unwise when it imperils one's food supply.
Eagle warns shepherds that wolf is eating sheep.
Forethought in provision for clothing.
Do not discard clothing till cold weather is over.
More than one swallow to make a summer.
Build shelter for the whole year.
Bear builds house of wood; fox of ice.
Truth the best policy.
Lady answers queen so straightforwardly she gets light punishment.
In planning future, profit by the past.
Frogs decide not to jump into the well.
Remove obstacles from path.
The only person in the bath.
All aspects of a plan must be foreseen.
The forgotten wind.
Advice after the event valueless.
Doctor gives advice after patient dies.
Beware of following an interested adviser.
Tailless fox tries in vain to induce foxes to cut off tails.
Noseless man persuades fools to cut off noses.
Tailless jackal persuades other jackals to cut off tails.
Crane advises fool to empty reservoir so he can reap all grain.
Fish refuse fox's invitation to live on dry land and thus escape danger of fishermen.
Old age must be planned for.
Child finds gray hair in wicked father's head.
Fourth horse must carry all.
Adulteress prepares for old age.
Leave a loophole for escape.
Priest keeps in container relic which when kissed renders people immune from pestilence.
Mark the way one is going in an unfamiliar country.
Do not work yourself out of employment.
Cat only drives rats away; Wisdom of concessions to power.
The lion's share.
Lion divides the booty.
Fox refuses to mediate between lion and lioness.
King honors poet and critic: the first so that he will honor the king;
Ruler angered by evil spoken of him is placated by soft words of speakers.
Prime minister bribes priest to persuade king that ocean of milk he wishes sought for had curdled.
Fox with three hundred fables ready to tell against lion conveniently forgets them.
Flattery of the great.
Imprisoned musician defends himself.
Flatterer always agrees with king even in opposite opinions;
"High-born alone recognizes one of equal rank with himself."
Flattery of the wicked to escape death at his hands: "This is an offering to my lord Esau from his slave Jacob".
Dissenting minister to king: "Let the king do as seems good in his eyes".
Unpleasant truths must be withheld from the great.
Liar rewarded by the apes.
Brother who conforms to naked people's customs honored.
Muddy bath prepared for blemished king.
Tact in reproving the great.
King brought to sense of duty by feigned conversation of birds.
King living apart from wife brought to sense of duty by philosopher.
King called baker's son: he has given the poet only loaves of bread.
King brought to sense of duty by woman's words.
Woman tactfully restrains amorous king.
A soft answer turneth away wrath.
Man called a rogue by a nobleman makes a joke of the insult.
Physician willing to believe in four persons.
King makes absurd statement about flowers.
With a silent person one is alone.
Care in advising a king.
Yogi advises yogi blood for making king's leaky tank hold water: king cuts off yogi's head.
Keeping on good terms with hostile gods.
Dog asks raven why he sacrifices to Athene, since she hates raven because of his powers of augury.
Man plays fool to protect himself in dealing with king.
Man pretends idiocy so as to avoid compromising himself when summoned to testify by two rival queens before the king.
Man recounts unpleasant happening to king when in good humor and draws laugh;
Dealing with the great--miscellaneous.
The king and the cheap slippers.
Devil decides to leave of own accord.
Vanquished ruler in disguise gets audience with victor.
Mohammed goes to the mountain (tree) when the mountain will not come to him.
Reeds bend before wind (flood).
Ass foolish to kick against the pricks.
Fire burns man who doesn't understand it.
Wit interprets unfavorable decision of court as doing him great honor.
Consolation for misfortune found in food.
Consoled by a drop of honey.
Man on sinking ship eats salt.
Mouse (fly) dying in meat tub is happy that he has eaten to satisfaction.
Comfort in the contemplation of impossible pleasure.
Fox stumbles over violin.
Fox about to be hanged asks to be allowed to see geese.
Consolation by thinking of some good aspect of a situation.
"But by a fine fellow!" Consolation by thinking of the past.
Unsuccessful fishermen console themselves that their earlier high hopes balance up their disappointment.
Mutual and undeserved compliments: donkey to camel, "What a beauty you are"; latter answers, "What a sweet voice you have."
Consolation by a trifle--miscellaneous.
Doves in net console themselves because they think trapper's tears are from pity for them.
The fox and the sour grapes.
Fox asking for favor set on by dogs.
Fox in swollen river claims to be swimming to distant town.
Jackal covers up his inability to cross stream by saying he is looking for shallowest part.
Clever jackal covers up his clumsiness in catching cows by saying he was running to and fro because he was looking for the fattest calf.
Dog driven out of dining room claims to be drunk.
Warrior having lost a city claims that he did not wish to sell it for a higher price.
Headless king and tailless tiger, each afraid of other, agree to be friends.
Scorned suitor consoles himself by realization that a wife who did not love him would be constant source of trouble.
Timid animal consoled when he sees others more timid.
More timid than the hare.
Lion comforted for his fear of the cock.
Man with unfaithful wife comforted.
Man with unfaithful wife comforted when he sees the queen's unfaithfulness.
Man with unfaithful wife comforted when he sees jealous husband who carefully guards wife cuckolded.
Man whose wife gives him bath only once a week comforted by one who does so once a year.
Poor man consoles self by thinking of misfortunes of rich.
Man compelled to live on peas takes comfort when he sees a man once rich eating the hulls.
Man in cold consoles himself thinking of rich men in hell or prison.
Clever person's defeat pleases inferior.
Hare upbraided by sparrow for letting self be carried off by eagle rejoices when sparrow is carried off by hawk.
Enemy horses captured by lion join forces and become friends.
Consolation: spiritual recompense for temporal misfortune.
Consolation: priest tells blind man that even flies have eyes but only man has the inner eyes of the soul.
The seven daughters of Humility.
Humility of angels.
Humility one of the qualifications of a prophet.
Judge should possess humility and modesty.
Humility of the wise "Sons of the East".
Wise man acknowledges his ignorance.
Men not chosen for their ignorance; else he should have reached heaven.
Wise man humble in death.
King orders piece of cloth shown after his death.
King refuses to have fine tomb erected for him since his stay on earth is so unimportant.
Rich man humbled by realization that he cannot take his wealth with him.
King has earthen vessels placed on table among the golden ones.
King shows humility by mingling with common people.
King David dances with common youths before the Ark of the Covenant.
King of humble lineage cannot be flattered.
Abbot to avoid vainglory receives judge in rags.
Opposing wise men humble themselves and become friends.
Empress sews and shows she is not too noble to work.
Noble and ugly holy man embraces man who calls him ugly, saying he loves those who see him as he really is.
Lowly masks as great.
Ass in lion's skin unmasked when he raises his voice.
Jay in peacock's (pigeon's) skin unmasked.
Crow tries to prophesy like raven: detected by his voice.
Weasel paints self to deceive mice.
Painted jackal admitted neither to the peacocks nor to the jackals.
King of jackals captured because of his large banner.
Lowly animal tries to move among his superiors.
Presumptuous wolf among lions.
Ass follows after lion and is punished.
Dog follows lion.
Ass who has worked with ox thinks himself equal to ox.
Frog heaps abuse on bullock, who scorns him.
Self-deception of the lowly.
Dog proud of his clog.
Bad singer thinks he is talented: driven from theatre.
Bad writer who praises himself reprimanded.
Flute-player thinks song meant for the prince is sung to him.
Ass who carried divine image thinks people bow before him.
Disdain of the wolf for the dog.
Gnats think they have thrown horse down.
Crow thinks harvesters are stealing his grain.
Woman in finery in church thinks people are standing up to see her when they rise at gospel reading.
Spider thinks that it has held back the wind.
Gnats apologize for lighting on bull's horn.
Raven riding on bull's horns thinks he has brought bull home.
Crow alighting on falling tree thinks his weight made it fall.
Glowworm thinks he shines like stars.
Fox thinks his elongated shadow at sunrise makes him as large as elephant.
Jackal falls into dye vat, tries to pose as peacock: detected.
Animals each think moon shines for his benefit.
Owl thinks echoes of his hoots are sounds of praise.
Rat imagines himself owner of camel.
Rag accidentally in king's wardrobe thinks it is a ribbon.
Foolish boast of ancestry by lowly.
Mule as descendant of king's war-horse.
Fox claims that certain statues are of his ancestors.
Lowly tries in vain to be greater than he is.
Frog tries in vain to be as big as ox.
Fish swells with pride until it bursts.
Bird tries to puff itself up to look like peacock.
Titmouse ruffles feathers to seem big as a bear.
Servant plays at being emperor.
Page dreams of being king.
Servant asks master for arms of knighthood.
Peasant asks to be knighted.
Old simpleton resolves to become a senator.
Ambitious branch chosen king of trees.
Presumptuous man before the works of Michelangelo says: "I too am a master".
Mole pretends that he sees, smells, and hears.
Flies try to drink water from elephant's ears.
One cock takes glory of another's valor.
Ass in the potter's shop.
Kid perched on house jeers at wolf.
Hare demands equal rights for all animals.
Day after Feast Day disputes importance with Feast Day.
After one day of schooling children are ordered by their father to cease associating with the unlearned.
Boaster of victory over a weaker person reprimanded.
Presumptuous smith chants the Divine Comedy.
Dante beats a mule driver who chants the Divine Comedy.
Presumptuous officials disregarded by council.
Lazy woman resumes her work.
The quarreling sons and the bundle of twigs.
Sons united make living; separated fail.
Preacher teaches beaten Genoese the strength of unity.
Fight of lions and bulls.
Dog leader fears defeat because his forces are of different breeds.
Quails caught in net rise up in a body with net and escape.
Captured elephants pull all at once and escape from net.
United cocks defeat partridge.
Cranes fighting as allies defeat all enemies.
Cats unite in battle against a wolf.
Grain will be cut when farmer attends to it himself.
Stag found by master when overlooked by servants.
Gardener who plants vegetable tends it best.
Gods help those who help themselves.
Impossibility of pleasing everyone.
Weather to please one only.
Miller, his son, and the ass: trying to please everyone.
Death's three messengers.
Cranes disregard warnings and are killed.
Snake disregards warnings to improve his manners: eaten by crab.
Man disregards mother's warning and is punished.
Man disregards priest's warning and is punished.
Value depends upon real use.
The cock and the pearl: prefers a single corn to a peck of pearls.
Baldheaded man finds the comb: it is useless.
Foolish dog finds treasure and dies rather than leave it.
Miser's treasure stolen.
Cure yourself before doctoring others.
Frog as beauty doctor unable to cure his own ugliness.
Doctor unable to cure himself scorned.
Bald man tries to sell hair restorer.
Pot calls kettle black.
Mother crab blames her children for not walking straight.
Drunk man makes sport of another man for being drunk.
Futility of trying to teach the stupid.
Raven killed by apes who will not receive his teaching that a shining stone is not fire.
Results of labor lost in a moment of procrastination.
After laboring to make a brazen head, artist loses labor in moment of procrastination.
Man to be judged by his own qualities, not his clothes.
Guests strike man who tries to interfere in their quarrel.
Rich Brahmin wearing poor clothing is treated as a beggar.
Never use your entire resources.
Man who never does any piece of work so well that he cannot improve it.
Value of silence.
Parson's apology for not answering challenge: I have never regretted silence but have often regretted speech.
Man does not court ugly woman: she might say yes.
Time renders all things commonplace.
Woman tests enduring power of gossip by having a servant ride through streets on a flayed ass.
Fox is terrified on first seeing lion.
Futility of distant travel.
Man desirous of traveling sent six miles to deliver a letter.
Preciousness of untroubled sleep.
King buys spendthrift's bed.
Futility of trying to hide an obvious deed.
Horn will tell the tale.
Money does not always bring happiness.
The happy friar becomes unhappier as he receives ever more and more money.
Possession of gold turns humble servant into arrogant one.
King sees poor man far happier than himself.
Poor man returns to the emperor all save enough for comfort: wealth would take happiness from his simple life.
Ignoring the unpleasant.
Futility of expecting stranger to have one's interest at heart.
When the sweet fails try the bitter.
Clever girl.
Princess skillful in argument.
Princess skillful in pleading.
Illegitimate daughter of trickster inherits father's ability to dupe others.
Clever daughter-in-law.
Clever peasant daughter.
Clever minister's daughter.
Clever maidservant.
Clever slave girl.
Clever wife.
Wife reforms wayward husband.
Disguised real wife orders motley wear for her husband when he goes to fetch new bride-to-be: prospective father-in-law takes him for a
fool and real wife reveals herself to husband.
Wife dismisses maid who is husband's mistress and tells him she has fled.
Clever wife advises husband how to succeed on adventures.
Wives prevent war by placing themselves and their children between two armies.
Clever wife obtains secrets from husband by questioning him.
Clever boy.
Clever servant.
Clever slave.
Man deceived by his hireling.
Clever professions.
Clever gambler.
Clever physician.
Physician decides that there is no need of purging one who drinks so many liquids.
Physician removes pea from patient's ear.
Clever barber.
Clever tailor.
Clever minstrel.
Clever minstrel gets a new robe.
Clever peasant.
Clever merchant.
Clever merchant profits by being robbed.
Clever prostitute.
Clever shepherd.
Clever official.
Clever governor.
Clever minister.
Foolish person becomes clever.
Clever madman.
Animal as trickster.
Jackal as trickster.
Coyote as trickster.
Clever bird.
Clever parrot.
Clever younger generation.
Young crow's alertness.
Clever court jester.
Maxims for use of law court.
Solomon able to detect truth without evidence of witnesses.
Confession obtained by a ruse.
Guilty person deceived into gesture (act) which admits guilt.
Largest part of a prize to go to the guilty man.
"Thief has grease from stolen fowl on him": Creditor: "The destroyed bond was a cubit in size."
Stone as witness.
"Guilty man's stick will grow during night." "Thief has the feathers sticking on his head":
To decide which is master and which servant they are to put heads through window and servant's head is to be cut off.
Which is man and which demon in man's shape? Accused woman to go three times around building naked:
guilty one begins to strip off her clothes.
Thief persuaded detective can read thoughts: confesses.
Queen flogs suspects telling them to produce stolen gem: thief promises to do so.
Confession of debt secured by having defendant dispute as to whether cat was present when debt was made.
B warns A not to tie his horse near B's.
Magician assigned three places at a table.
Cheaters examined apart; first made to repeat paternoster.
Confession induced by bringing an unjust action against accused.
Detection of theft by finding bag-repairer.
Thief's money scales borrowed.
Thief suspected of crawling through hole must take off clothes.
Silence points to guilt.
The guilty protests his innocence.
Confession obtained by making thief fear for his life.
Detection through ruse.
Guilty man freed of murder charge is tricked into making a false accusation for which he is sentenced.
Witness always to answer "No." Minister threatens divine punishment to thief in
congregation.
The thief is tricked into revealing himself in church.
The thief is tricked into betraying himself in supposed ordeal.
Pseudo-scientific methods of detecting.
Test of mother by weighing milk.
Love detected by quickening pulse.
Guilt detected by quickening heartbeat.
Adultery detected by spit marks on the wall.
Thief's corpse carried through street to see who will weep for him.
Mother's weeping for thief made to seem natural.
Clever son falls from tree, so mother's tears over dead body of father being carried through street will seem natural.
Woman breaks milk jars so that weeping for thief will seem natural.
Thief detected by building straw fire so that smoke escapes through thief's entrance.
Eaters of stolen food detected.
Eaters of stolen food detected by the giving of an emetic.
Animal thief of eggs detected when he comes to a spring to drink.
Detection through aid of animal.
Murderer detected by actions of murdered man's dog.
Detection by strewing ashes (sand).
Detection by pitch-trap.
Detection through feigned dream.
Husband relates his wife's adultery in pretended dream.
Miscellaneous means of detecting.
Feigned madness unmasked by threatening man's child.
Cheater discovered by fishing in the street.
Detection by disrobing in a dance.
Urinalysis reveals coition as cure for illness.
Detection of guilt by smile.
Thief detected by his answer to question.
Thief posing as corpse detected by pricking soles of his feet.
Magistrate detects thief's complicity by associating cut hand with companion's severed head.
Magistrate finds thieving innkeepers guilty of arson.
Truth detected by spies listening to reactions of defendants at night.
Washing test: defendants given basin of water.
Ninety-nine wise men and one fool ordered to pour milk into a tank all at one time: only the fool obeys.
Testimony of witness cleverly discredited.
Testimony discredited by inducing witness to talk foolishly.
Talkative wife discredited.
Husband discredited by absurd truth.
The sausage rain.
Witness claims the borrowed coat: discredited.
Testimony gradually weakened.
Testimony of unsuccessful suitor discredited.
Witness cannot speak language of accusation: discredited.
Separate examination of witnesses discredits testimony.
Susanna and the elders: separate examination of witnesses.
To which of two men does woman belong? Witness discredited by inability to tell details.
Parrot unable to tell husband details as to wife's infidelity.
Witnesses to make image of diamond they claim to have seen.
False witnesses cannot describe stolen jewel.
"Then I woke up": Confession discredited by claim to be notorious liar.
Bribed witnesses nonplussed when judge asks wrong question.
Witness claims not to have seen crime.
Witness says that dust storm blew and shut his eyes so that he did not see.
Literal pleading: letter of law has been met.
The three joint depositors may have their money back when all demand it.
Pound of flesh.
Trespasser's defense: standing on his own land.
Money in the stick.
Literal penance: boy outwits pope.
Barber paid to change color of woman's face burns her with acid.
Ruler forbids blacksmith to reveal solution of riddle unless he has seen him 100 times.
Ruler orders doctor to wear his hair and his robe "not too long and not too short".
Bishop orders priest to wear his beard and his robe "not too long and not too short."
Drunk philosopher wagers that he can drink the ocean dry.
Man tells servant that he may have anything he can take with his teeth (eat).
Thief makes it fall out that he has but taken what has been given him (he has followed literal instructions).
Plea by admitting accusation and discomfiting accuser.
Nurse's false plea admitted: child demanded.
Robbers' false plea admitted: counteraccusation.
Own name inscribed on a stolen object as sign of property.
Clever pleading: youth in court for calling king a fool, proves truth of statement because king allowed self to be duped by alchemist.
Pleading for accused by means of parable.
Clever pleading: fighting for King of Kings.
Plea by showing great temptation to crime.
Thieves tell judge walls of houses were so weak they could not resist temptation of breaking in.
Plea by shifting blame to another.
Barber operating on child's skin kills it: blames mother for child's thin skin.
When royal mace-bearer is attacked he throws away mace: attackers accuse him of insult to king.
Clever pleading--miscellaneous.
The woman with bad eyes.
Bought behind the village.
Their assistance not asked.
The ass beheaded.
The laughing ass.
Receiver of stolen goods.
Suit about the ass's shadow.
The prophet's first disciple.
Three unlawful acts in killing one sheep: two lambs were inside.
Clever judicial decisions.
Series of wise judgments settles quarrels of village.
The Irish Solomon (Cormac mac Airt).
Judgment by testing love.
Solomon's judgment: the divided child.
The ring to be cut in two and divided between quarreling persons: real owner laments the waste of the gold.
Solomon's judgment: the divided bride.
The woman with two husbands is to be killed.
Clever judgment: man must belong to the third wife because the first had buried him and the second did not protect him.
Which mare is mother of colt: colt taken in boat to the middle of river; mother will swim to it.
Judgment as rebuke to unjust plaintiff.
Not the same purse as was lost.
Payment with the clink of the money.
Ungrateful animal returned to captivity.
Unjust claimant of woman duped into entering jar.
Animals render unjust decision against man since man has always been unjust to them.
Turtle released by man to carry him across stream.
Series of clever unjust decisions: plaintiff voluntarily withdraws.
Novel settlement of dispute.
Novel settlement: snake's wife must wait to kill prince till princess bears as many sons as snake has.
Clever decisions concerning kissing and rape.
Youth in court for kissing prince's daughter pleads his love for her.
Complaint about the stolen kiss.
Man breaks promise to sleep chastely with woman.
The girl screams when she is robbed.
Girls must pay for young man's virginity.
Man's torn garment as proof of his innocence of rape.
Judgments concerning arson.
The cat in the warehouse.
Intentional and accidental fire.
Decisions based on experimental tests.
Pouring water into the inkwell.
Measuring the dregs.
Gold pieces in the honey-pot.
A two-headed man is only one man.
True husband of woman determined by assigning superhuman task.
Story told to discover thief.
None should interrupt or leave the room while story is told: treachery revealed.
Story told to discover thief: sundry tales.
Clever judicial decisions -- miscellaneous.
Damages for the field devastated by a flock.
The hog belongs to whichever place he goes of his own accord.
The short blanket must be patched.
Robber innocent because he is merely following traditions of his ancestors.
Servants would not have left the coats.
Thread awarded to disputant who knows what it was wound on.
Stolen necklace does not have same scent as defendant uses.
Tenant advised by landlord to steal in order to pay his taxes acquitted.
The judge pays fine himself.
Enoch Arden decision.
Those who furnish equal number of animals for plow share equally in crop (in spite of amount of work done by each).
Actual rescuer gets woman.
Cardinal's clever decision: that the monks who arise earliest may sound matins.
Eye of king's foster-son damaged by sting of bee.
Execution escaped by use of special permissions granted the condemned.
Execution: man induced to kill self.
Execution evaded by using three wishes.
Execution evaded by having three wishes granted: to be emperor, judge and the emperor's son-in-law during the last week of his life.
Condemned man wins pardon by clever remark.
Punishment escaped by discomfiting condemner.
To be beaten by deceiver of husband.
Execution escaped by invoking laws of hospitality.
Prisoner has drunk water furnished by the king and thus becomes king's guest.
No second punishment for same offense.
Adulteress hurled from high rock escapes injury: she may not be punished again.
Ears not to be cut off a second time.
Execution escaped by story-telling.
Scheherazade: story with indefinite sequels told to stave off execution.
Clever means of avoiding legal punishment--miscellaneous.
Youth will answer question only when king places him on throne: then youth calls executioners to punish cruel king.
Execution escaped by threatening with malediction.
King substitutes for condemned man when he is told that whoever is executed that day is destined to become king in his next birth.
Reductio ad absurdum of judgment.
Reductio ad absurdum: the decision about the colt.
"The sea is on fire" Suit for chickens produced from boiled eggs.
The funeral for the ineligible husband.
To return the dead elephant alive.
Reductio ad absurdum of accusation: object-birth slander.
Impossible to eat pearls: also impossible for woman to bear animals (objects).
Plaintiff in court beats thief since he had not warned him ahead of time to have witnesses to robbery.
Rice pot on pole, fire far away.
The bribed judge.
Judge awards decision to the greater bribe.
Buffalo has eaten up turban.
Judge favors poor defendant so he may obtain money from rich without begging.
Error was in the honey.
The bribed judge's ancestors.
Clever interpretation of judge's statement.
Killing the fly on the judge's nose.
The value of a blow.
The Court keeps the change.
Judge frightened into awarding decision.
Judge finds offense is not great when it is his own son who is guilty.
Pardon in return for confession.
King promises thieves pardon for confession: pleased with their cleverness.
Putting out of countenance by telling evil stories.
Peasant preaches about bishop's amour.
Priest preaches about bishop's amour.
Clever thief may keep booty.
The drunken officer's stolen mantle.
Courtier having observed king's amour shields him and gains pardon.
Judge put out of countenance.
The doubly-bribed judge.
Thief exposes owner's unjust claim.
Complaint about the stolen ox.
Absurd pretence, when allowed, puts pretender out of countenance.
Claim that dog-head captured game.
Cheater put out of countenance by raising alarm.
Worldly man puts religious man out of countenance.
One dueller fights with God's help; the other with his brother's.
Simple holy man puts philosopher out of countenance when he says to him that wisdom came before learning.
Thirty years old for twelve years.
Old man in love with young woman puts his critics out of countenance.
Rebuke for telling a poor and long-winded story.
Poet is importuned by admirers.
Poet (Dante) puts ruler out of countenance.
Clever dividing which favors the divider.
Dividing two sheep and a ram: trickster to divide with two friends.
Dividing four coins among three persons.
Dividing three fish among two men.
Division of the fat and lean fowls.
Dividing the eggs: one man's hand in the pot at a time.
Dividing by scripture quoting.
Hog's head divided according to scripture.
Three men divide a large fish by quoting scripture.
Inherited gold ring divided between three by selling it and dividing the money.
Clever dividing--miscellaneous.
Dividing five eggs equally between two men and one woman.
Baffling malice with ready answers.
Humiliated lover in repartee with disdainful mistress.
Quibbling answers.
Evading a direct answer which may trap one.
Answering only "yes" and "no".
Repartee based on levity toward sacred persons and things.
Levity toward name of God.
God as a father-in-law.
Why God has few friends.
Man barks his shins on dark night.
Farmer looks at his hay on ground after a rain: "If I was a God, I'd be a God and not a damned fool!" U.
Woman causes disturbance in church, is carried out forcibly.
Disrespect for the sacrament.
The sacrament for sale.
Distrusts God when he can be brought by a man.
Priest may eat communion supper.
Sacrament too precious to be bought.
Dante is accused of not kneeling before sacrament.
Priest bringing Host to dying man sees thief on his fig tree.
Priest throws Chalice at owl.
Priest carries the Host across a dangerous stream.
Will lunch with Christ.
Blessing not worth a penny.
Will spend the funeral money now.
Priest may use his own mother's mass money.
Judgment Day a long way off.
Monk's cordon cannot stand the strain.
"Better a live confessor than a dead martyr." How does goddess with thousand faces blow her noses?
Repartee based on doctrinal discussions.
Earthen cups replaced by golden.
God in the puddle.
Acting according to the note.
Levity regarding biblical passages.
Levity regarding the paternoster.
Parishioner hears preacher say that alms are returned "100 to 1".
Whoever gives alms in God's name will receive tenfold: preacher's wife gives sweetmeats away.
"You don't blame a toolmaker for making all manner of tools, both harmful and helpful, so why blame God for making bad beasts as well
as good ones?" Repartee: "If you can't see the soul in the living man, how
can you expect to see it in the dead?" Skeleton has all his ribs.
Three true faiths.
Repartee concerning clerical abuses.
Repartee based on clerical ignorance.
Why ignorant priests are favored.
Consecration of the ignorant priest.
Priest who never reads mass.
Rushing through the mass.
Christ's disciples did not pass the examination.
Repartee concerning clerical venality.
Price of consecration.
Rich man shakes ducats into pope's lap.
Priest refuses small bribe: only for large sum will he sell himself to devil.
Christians have a merciful God.
Repartee concerning clerical luxury.
The abbot's luxury and the cardinal's.
Man calls Saints Peter and Paul fools for enduring poverty if rich abbots can reach heaven, too.
Clergy in no need of spectacles.
Choosing his confessor.
Confession made easy.
Repartee concerning clerical incontinence.
The church his wife.
Celibacy at the altar.
Father wears a crown but is no king.
During the silent period.
Youth says he is associating with a pious person.
Nun claims her child is by the Holy Ghost.
Multiplying his talents.
Unequal returns.
Abbess has twenty-four nuns for twelve monks: twelve nuns therefore for the guests.
Repartee based on church government.
Like Christ on Palm Sunday.
Priest offers to exchange places with the bishop when he is told that he is unfit to care for his parish.
The same company of fools.
Repartee based on church or clergy--miscellaneous.
The parson's share and the sexton's.
Man absents self from church because he does not like to hear people slandered.
Would be first in all things.
Scolding priest says he is merely trying to get even for all the scolding he must undergo.
Transmutation of the quail.
The capon and the hen.
Praying before the King of Kings.
Robber's defense for stealing from rich.
Who bore the Savior on his back? (St. Christopher.) Mice die of hunger.
Their own quarters need it more.
Youth announces fire in imitation of priest's metaphorical language.
Cannot leave court of God: reply of saint when king invites him to court.
Eunuch visits augurer to see whether he is to be a father.
The gift of the fool.
Children by day and by night.
His father has been in Rome.
The child born too soon.
Child born one month after marriage.
Too much for his income.
Child born on wedding night.
Repartee regarding the parentage of children--miscellaneous.
Plea for a good father.
Even God can overdo it! Returning sailor finds his hovel transformed into a fine house.
Suitor hesitates to marry girl as immature (or too delicate).
In numbers there is strength.
"If I were a tyrant you would not say so." Trickster chooses his gift.
Gifts from the brothers.
Do not leave it to your successor.
Show me how it is done.
Cease being a king.
Against his will.
His proper title.
Repartee with ruler (judge, etc.
Not a locksmith.
Bishop and prince.
Will not try to correct them.
The needy philosopher.
Wearing all his clothes.
The prince's excuse.
Shoemaker speaks ill of lord's rule.
One ear saved for other litigant.
Seek harmony in your own house.
King cannot destroy the city.
Man, fined for sabbath-breaking, asks for receipt, Man is arrested for drunkenness;
Weaver hearing of tax for every doorway of weavers takes his door to the khan: will not return for the sidewalls of his house.
Gem offered by monarch to one who can first go around the kingdom.
Thief serves king buffaloes he has killed in hunt and lost; Hairless palms from giving and receiving gold.
Emperor: "What people have the biggest bellies?" Jester answers: "The landlords."
Holy man asked by king for the heart of religion answers: "You are sitting on your throne and I'm sitting on the ground, so how can I
tell." Tailor caught resting his head on royal robe while he rests
tells king there is no better resting place for king's robe, for "the head is the king of the body."
King to smoker: "Even donkeys will have nothing to do with tobacco."
Question answered by absurd counterquestion.
Black beans, white soup.
Why is it that black cow eats green grass, gives white milk and yellow butter?
Theological questions answered by propounding simple questions in science.
How many priests should one have in one place? How much cloth would it take to make God's coat?
"In this sesame flower where is the oil?" Tide inquires whether moon is up.
Reductio ad absurdum of proposal.
Little bird as large bird's mate.
Absurdity: sea (river) is on fire.
If his head is taken off other punishments do not matter.
Turning king into Brahmin like turning donkey into horse.
Pot full of milk as sign that city is full of fakirs; All appurtenances included.
How he shall be mourned.
The overloaded mule.
Aesop with the lantern.
Why the black clothes.
How the tail pointed.
How marriage was consummated.
Officiousness or foolish questions rebuked--miscellaneous.
Man asks naked Indian if he is not cold.
"How often do you kill your ducks?" "Where did dirt go when canal was dug?"
What is wanted, not what is asked.
The watered wine.
Serve the water and the wine separately.
Washed in the Rhine.
Baptized wine.
Old wine.
The road to Heaven.
Points of view.
Very small to be so old.
Small jug preferred.
Wine gives ambassador courage to address Pope.
Repartee concerning wine--miscellaneous.
Man says: "I do love my enemies and I have great affection for them that hurt me."
The unrepentant drunkard.
Where did he get the wine? Though old woman is made to believe she is in hell she
calls for drinking companions.
The great thirst.
Will take care of the thirst.
Sleeping on salt.
Should have brought him drink.
Stung by the goblet.
Persistent beggar invited upstairs.
Beggar wants bread.
Prove me a liar.
Beggar tells stingy to go beg.
Beggar claims to be emperor's brother.
Asking costs nothing.
Retort from underfed servant (child).
Softening bread-crusts.
Asking the large fish.
A dog to scent the rice.
Two eggs.
Hungry apprentice attracts master's attention by telling lies on him.
Hungry shepherd attracts attention.
Stingy innkeeper cured of serving weak beer.
The little lumps of sugar are sweeter, says the hostess.
Hungry son gets cherries.
Hungry student gets meat.
Hired men sing of displeasure with food; change song when food is improved
Hired man shows in saying grace how better food has resulted from arrival of unexpected guests.
Prayer over the underdone hen.
The liking for food and drink.
The best music.
Before, during, and after.
Unwelcome guest tells about the hidden food.
Why he did not eat the bread.
Maid rebukes pilgrim for eating too much.
Women call each other prostitutes.
Prostitutes wander.
The envious accuser.
Person calls another an ass.
The burden of two asses.
Age is relative.
Whom it concerns.
Not in his line of business.
The one exception.
The flatterer's retort.
Ancient and modern ancestors.
No thanks to the messenger.
Monk says that he is a stallion.
Too late for the same advice.
To be rewarded by his kind.
Rude retorts--miscellaneous.
Man decides to spend 100 florins to become known.
The prodigy's retort.
Two men meet in narrow passage.
Person asks: "Whose fool are you?" Answer: "I am the Bishop of Durham's fool; whose fool are you?" England: *Baughman.
Why soldier is silent before king: is always so when questioned by stupid person.
The account-book of mistakes.
Safe since no white man is near.
Where you got it last year.
Payers of cash favored.
The one to blow the whistle.
The weighted order-cards.
Unstable security.
A three thousand year old debt.
Thief makes a lame excuse.
Thief's excuse: the big wind.
The ladder market.
The sheep's teeth.
Bitten by the sheep.
How he would act if he were a hawk.
Fox pretends that he has been to the farmyard only to see if any of his kindred were there.
Lame excuse: one cannot drink because he has no teeth.
Were merely measuring cup.
Needles and anchors.
Owner assists thief.
Thief followed home.
Robbers commiserated.
Owner advises thieves to return later.
Cynic helps robber steal his money so he and robber can get sleep.
Owner laughs at thief who finds nothing in house.
Bridegroom promises thief spoils later if he will not interfere with wedding.
The double fool.
Thieves' nocturnal habits.
Night study.
Man who rises too early.
Was going to give it to him any way.
Removing chance for worry.
The cost price recovered.
Compliments from the hangman.
Retorts concerning thefts--miscellaneous.
The Lord has Risen.
The tailor's dream.
The hay wagon and the gate.
Peace among the animals.
Good bath.
Roast falcon.
Where the foxes will meet.
I know not how.
No physician at all.
"Do as I say and not as I do." Strenuous cure for madness.
Veterinarian becomes doctor.
God of the earth.
A cynic's retorts.
The cynic wants sunlight.
Cynic praises power of reason.
The cynic at the bath.
The cynic and the pale gold.
The cynic's burial.
Cynic asks that his body be exposed to the elements.
The cynic as judge of wine.
The cynic and the big gates.
The cynic and the bastard stone-thrower.
The cynic discusses heaven.
The cynic and the bald-headed man.
The cynic and the deceiver.
The cynic and the fig tree.
The cynic's wish.
Cynic is asked if widower should remarry.
The smallest woman makes the best bride.
The fools in the city.
They gave it away themselves.
The forgotten traditions.
Aaron's censer.
The favored swine.
The contagious yawns.
Who gets the beehive.
Why he was thin.
It's better to fight in the shade.
The lion and the statue.
Has never died yet.
The liar.
The gray fox.
An oath to break oaths.
The cause of grayness.
Customary suits.
A long beard and sanctity.
Trumpeter's false defense.
Must drink from the common cup.
Sailor prays for gods to sink ship during storm, since gods never do what they are asked to do.
Not in good form.
The eunuch's defense.
The fairest thing in the garden.
The greedy dreamer.
The 999 gold pieces.
The fatal bed.
Is ready to go.
The proud hide humbled.
Demonstrate here.
Husband and wife burn their mouths.
The abbot burns his mouth.
As you surely will.
Keeping the secret.
Repartee concerning runaway horses.
King and jester flee: the king's swift horse.
Where his mule will.
Storms on land.
"Why didn't you stay on the horse?" The sound of shaving.
Mistaken identity.
Husband mistaken for lover in bed.
Listening to the debate.
Progress in school.
What the bear whispered in his ear.
Artist paints too few birds.
Trickster artist hoodwinks king: cuckold's eyes cannot see picture.
Daydreamer has lost his chance for profit.
Why captain takes lame and one-eyed soldiers into army.
Person runs from actual or supposed ghost.
Man runs from actual or from supposed ghost.
When Caleb comes.
A rule must work both ways.
Make-believe eating, make-believe work.
Turnips called bacon: cat called rabbit.
Man bathing rich man uses sand instead of sandalwood: "Consider the sand of the Ganges to be sandalwood."
Eating cure becomes epidemic.
Fits become epidemic.
The wine-spilling host rebuked.
The porter's revenge for the three wise counsels.
No clothes needed for Day of Judgment.
Forbidden to think.
Master says that he has eyes in back of head: servant cheats him.
Counterfeit money burned up.
Boy pretends to speak only Latin.
The man in place of a watch-dog.
Oisin's poor diet in Patrick's house--pancake size of ivy leaf, measure of butter only size of rowan berry.
Things on highway belong to the public.
Can drink only one kind of wine at a time.
"Eat spiritual food, not material," Ox bought; buyer also claims load of wood attached.
Priests say dying woman's unfulfilled request for mangoes must be paid in golden mangoes to them.
Wife surrendered to king.
Goldsmith sells thinly plated gold; peasant retaliates: a pot of dirt with a little gyav on top.
Impossible demand rebuked.
Milk from the hornless cow.
To return the eye to the one-eyed man.
Healed with his own medicine.
"If he does not live, let him die." You lead and I will follow: hard command thus evaded.
The father of an illegitimate child must walk in front of the cross.
Rogues exchange objects and cheat each other.
Thieves deceived by prearranged conversation which they overhear.
Overheard conversation: "Mustard has advanced in price." Overheard conversation: "Money hidden in wall (field)."
Overheard conversation: "My money is hanging in the tree." Swindler's plans foiled.
The shoes carried into the tree.
The old man nods "Yes".
Clever wife of king's adopted son keeps king distracted on deathbed so that he cannot disinherit husband.
Command would become permanent.
Unjust oath countered by another.
Catching by words.
Bargain: to render service for "something".
Rebuke to the stingy.
Half price for half a shave.
Stingy man rebuked when his children are feasted in his absence.
Poor girl outwits prince in fright-contest.
Soldier's practical retort to officer.
Officer disarmed by sentry.
Dream answered by dream.
Borrower's absurdities.
The transformed golden pumpkin.
Mill has given birth to horse.
The iron-eating mice.
The dog-eating bugs.
The pot has a child and dies.
Adulteress's absurdity rebuked.
The Snow-Child.
Absurdities concerning birth of animals, or men.
Deer captured in bird-net: water flows upstream.
Ruler's absurdity rebuked.
Absurdity of entrusting military mission to bishop.
Absurdity of trying to convert king to Hinduism--like making cow of donkey or black dog into white.
One absurdity rebukes another--miscellaneous.
Priest forbidden to have female servant ostentatiously washes his own clothes.
Scholar given third egg.
Husband outwits his wife.
The good words.
Sharing joy and sorrow.
The flute makes more noise.
Woman repulses ugly husband's advances.
Husband and wife separate and divide property.
Wife outwits her husband.
Will work when beaten.
Four men's mistress.
Fault-finding husband nonplussed.
Which does the more work.
Where are the shoes? Man who continually threatens to leave wife mortified when
she tells him to go; The exiled wife's dearest possession.
The besieged women's dearest possession.
Husband tells wife in indecent posture to "lock up shop".
Wife by cleverness wins back fortune overbearing husband has foolishly lost and humbles him.
Clever laughter and response of wife stops husband from fondling maid.
Corpse to be cut in two for easy carrying.
Wife shows deep water.
Overcurious wife learns of the senate's deliberations.
Imaginary debt and payment.
Imagined intercourse, imagined payment.
Imagined penance for imagined sin.
Singer repaid with promise of reward: words for words.
Directions for getting pay given in return for directions for healing.
Substitute for candle repaid with substitute for money.
The hare at third remove.
Imagined ownership: derived from a dream.
Imagined color.
Half of money thrown into tank.
The priest administers to a man sick with infectious disease.
"Here is half of picture and you must imagine other half." Loans refused.
The ass consulted about the loan.
The ass is not at home.
The bigger fool.
Three reasons for refusing credit.
Man refuses to lend horse: sued for consequent damages.
Better to donate half of what is asked than lend all.
Lender repays borrower for deceptive loan.
Borrower of butter receives pot of cowdung with little butter on top:
Miscellaneous retorts concerning borrowing and lending.
A present or a retaining fee.
God as surety; the abbot pays.
Too large a payment.
Inhospitality repaid.
Clothes thrown into the cooking food.
Inhospitable host punished for hospitality.
Welcome to the clothes.
Poor suitor served good supper prepared for rich one.
Servant repays stingy master (mistress).
Hostess says that she has no spoons.
The boy "loses his sight." Father causes inhospitable daughter to spoil her feast by
deceptive advice about cooking.
A box connection.
Grace said in name of the host.
The greedy host.
Turning the plate around.
The peasant's share is the chicken.
Host hides meat in his clothing.
Treatment of difficult guests.
The guest who could not keep warm.
Guests make impossible demands of host: host's representative forces guests to leave by sending them on difficult quest.
Bread baked with onions for an undesirable guest.
Proper food for ox and ass.
Guests frightened away by housewife.
Wife prepares the pestle.
Servants touch cooking pot.
When hints do not get rid of unwelcome guests, force must be used.
A sham fight to frighten away the guests.
Priest frightens away parasitic guests.
Talker keeps person from eating.
Trickster's interrupted feast revenged.
Revenge by interrupting feast.
Inappropriate entertainment repaid.
Fox and crane invite each other.
Bugs unable to eat honey at banquet of bees, and bees unable to eat dung at bug's dinner.
Crop division between parrot and cat: they try to cheat each other by inviting to a dinner in turns every day.
Luxury of host rebuked.
Philosopher spits in king's beard.
Ruler refuses hospitality from subject who spends more than he earns.
Host rebukes negligent servant.
A step-ladder for setting the table.
Guest brings along cakes to eat.
Suitor brings own lamp.
"Cause liberality to be depicted." Deceptive invitation to feast.
Inviting to a feast only those whose households have never been touched by death.
Stingy almsgiving repaid.
Poem for poem: all for all.
Reinforcement of the request for alms.
Base money in the offering.
The penny baked in the wafer.
Sulphur in the censer.
Interested only in his capital.
Any boon desired.
How much the ass cost.
Throw at a rich man.
Eyes treated for the stomach ache.
The fish in the sleeve.
One wrong and five hundred good deeds.
Two monks renew their appetites.
Hungry man eats intestines of fish next morning after refusing to do so the evening before.
The testament of the dog.
Ass's charter in his hoof.
The stolen meat and the weighed cat.
The lazy ass repaid in kind.
The rescuers' Sabbath.
The forehanded servant.
That which was promised him.
St. Peter not guiltless.
God's omniscience.
The one word petition.
Sharing his wounds.
The blacksmith's and the horse-trader's dreams.
Drunkard cured of seeing double.
The priest makes the omen come true.
Armies like seeds and peppercorns.
The sound of the harp.
To give the accounting afterward.
Taking cold in effigy.
An expensive joke.
The minstrel repays the cobbler.
Brotherly love and patience both dead.
To follow the king.
Robber gives priest double his penance and then takes his horse.
He has a family to support.
Sticking to the rules.
Priest asked to preach short sermon does so saying to congregation only that they are wicked.
Do not start here.
The abbot cannot find his needle.
Kissing the mother first.
Using the lamb to get an audience.
Clever ways of concealing jewels (treasure).
Jewels concealed in cowdung cakes.
Valuable rubies baked in bread.
Coins concealed in jar of oil (pickles).
Clever deductions.
Deductions from observation.
Deduction: the one-eyed camel.
Deduction: the camel ridden by a pregnant woman.
Deduction: the king is a bastard.
Deduction: magistrate is a bastard.
Deduction: bread made by a sick woman.
Deduction: mare has she-buffalo as mother.
Deduction: horse has been brought up on ass's milk.
Deduction: animal has been brought up on dog's milk.
Deduction: insect inside precious stone.
Deduction: prince plays with children because he has been denied a normal youth.
Deduction: one-eyed, long-bearded thief is named Kale Khan.
Banker able to recognize honest merchant by a single hair of his mustache.
Clever deduction of wise man: the theft of a cauldron detected.
Clever deductions by eating, smelling, drinking, etc.
Person describes approaching bands of warriors without recognizing them.
The cat's only trick.
One basket of wit better than twelve carloads of it.
Clever solution of debated question.
Which is coldest season? The inventive coachman.
Clever use of human weakness.
Clever dealing with a king.
Clever ways of attracting the king's attention.
King's attention attracted by fighting when it cannot be otherwise gained.
Unjust action brought to inform king of judge's malfeasance.
Clever ways of breaking bad news to a king, who will kill bearer of bad tidings.
Tidings brought to the king: You said it, not I.
King's capriciousness censured: the ass in the stream.
One-eyed king has rocks counted on pain of death.
Abbot gives king unique concert.
Poet goes to king to complain of destruction of his dwelling.
Clever hero feigns dullness so as to avenge himself on king.
Son of God to see king.
Settling the dispute.
Taunts of charioteer to rouse anger in master (who is losing battle) so that he may fight more vigorously.
Poet uses words which student cannot understand and so confounds him.
Stupid wife.
Extravagant woman whose husband continually finds fault with her.
Stupid husband.
Town (country) of fools.
Stupid classes.
Stupid peasant.
Stupid (ignorant) Brahmin.
Foolish pundits.
Foolish king.
Stupid animals.
Tiger as stupid beast.
Numskulls go a-travelling.
Animals helpless in sea-voyage together.
Numskulls quarrel over a greeting.
Foolish married couples.
How he knew she was baking cakes.
Association of wise men with fools.
A wise man follows a fool against his better judgment.
The wise man and the rain of fools.
When with fools, act foolish.
Forty wise men foretell violent rainstorm.
Author believes that his book must be stupid.
Old man silent in king's presence asks king what he himself does when in company with a fool.
A fool objects to fools as companions.
Three silly pundits sent to a raja as the two-footed cattle he had demanded.
Hero does not learn his name until after first adventure.
The city person ignorant of the farm.
The city girl: Do turnips grow in the ground or on trees? Man wants roasted honeycomb.
Ignorance of certain foods.
Fool unacquainted with sausage.
Fool is unacquainted with bananas, throws away the fruit, finds the rest bitter.
Woman is unacquainted with tea, serves the boiled leaves with butter.
Why the pigs shriek.
Layman's ignorance of medicine.
Urine diagnosis to tell where a man comes from.
Fool cannot tell his right hand in the dark.
How to tell the right hand in the dark.
Fools and the unknown animal.
Fools do not know what a crayfish is.
Fools do not know what an owl is and attack it.
Unknown animal: a pig captured in a pit.
Foolish lover ignorant of mistress's flaws.
Foolish lover does not know that his mistress lacks an eye.
Ignorance of religious matters.
Ignorant priest forces rolls of cloth instead of bread down a dying man's throat.
Living crucifix chosen.
Numskulls surprised at news that God has a son.
Numskulls surprised to hear that God's son has died.
Standing up for the friendless.
Letting in the light.
Ignorant people told religious holiday is coming the next day: camel appears and is feasted.
Men hide so that God will not see their sin.
Priests (schoolmasters) ignorant of Latin.
Evangelium secundum Pergamum.
"Agnus dei" as a prayer for money.
Prearranged answers in Latin not always successful.
Stupid scholar memorizes set answers to oral examination in Latin.
The countryman in the great world.
Countryman expects to find persons from his own village when he travels to another land.
His address: a big high house.
Peasants in city inn order whole portion of mustard.
Countryman visiting rich relative in the city refuses to eat dessert: "No, I am not hungry."
Peasant surprised that king is not larger than other men.
Countryman misunderstands comforts of city.
Boy who has never seen a real carpet, hops around the side of the room to avoid stepping on the cloth on the floor.
Ignorance of dates.
All sins since the birth of Christ.
Family do not realize that Lent has arrived until it is Palm Sunday.
Wash Bee Day.
Ignorance of marriage relations.
Bridegroom does not know what to do on his wedding night.
Bridegroom gets into bed.
Absurd ignorance of sex.
Fool cannot tell sex of nudes, since they have no clothes on.
Foolish girl ignorant of what is happening at her first menses.
Ignorance of reading.
Fool weeps each time he reads a book to see how small letters have become: at school they were big and fat.
The archbishop's wife and family.
Absurd ignorance of the use of spectacles.
Absurd ignorance--miscellaneous.
Fool thinks that "aforesaid" is a title of honor.
Ignorant notary cannot draw up document.
Dungbeetle thought to be bee.
Wolf thought to be colt.
Bear thought to be dog.
Ass thought to be hare.
Earthworm thought to be snake (or other monster).
Other animals thought to be a giant cat.
Rabbit thought to be a cow.
Tiger (lion, etc.) mistaken for domestic animal.
Tiger mistaken for goat.
Fool rides tiger thinking it to be a big male-goat.
Tiger thought to be dog.
Tiger mistaken for ass.
Thief mistakes leopard for calf (ass).
Lion thought to be donkey: drunkard rides it.
Thief thinks lion is horse.
Stupid husband mistakes tiger-cubs for jungle cats despite wife's judgment.
Other mistaken animals.
Scotsman thinks moose is a mouse, asks what rats look like in this country.
Hunter mistakes louse on his eyelash for game.
Numskull thinks fireflies are mosquitoes carrying lanterns to find victims.
Bull mistaken for horse.
Calf mistaken for colt.
Cat's tail mistaken for worm.
Animal thought to be object.
Whale thought to be island.
Turtle thought to be an island.
Serpent is taken for island.
White mare thought to be church.
Glowworm thought to be a fire.
Fish thought to be chewed sugar-cane.
Wolf thought to be log of wood.
Snake thought to be flute.
Snake mistaken for a whip by a blind man.
Living toad or beetles thought to be lost food and therefore eaten by numskulls.
Man mistakes dragon for log, sits on it.
Bear mistaken for a floating log (blanket).
Blind men and elephant.
Fool mistakes dung-beetles for fruit: eats them.
Animal thought to be a person.
Animals mistaken for messengers.
Goose mistaken for a tailor.
Crab mistaken for tailor.
Bear on haywagon (on horse) thought to be the preacher.
The bear mistaken for a saint.
Crab caught on tiger's tail thought to be pursuing man.
Deer thought to be man with basket on head.
Bees (wasps) mistaken for Jutlanders, etc.
Dressed up monkey thought to be a nobleman.
Lobsters mistaken for Norwegians.
Bear mistaken for a foreigner.
Foolish wife believes goats' heads are human heads.
Person thought to be an object.
Small priest covered with large hat thought to be a hat.
Girl mistaken for stone.
Sleeping soldier thought to be recumbent statue in chapel.
Person thought to be animal.
Shepherd taken to be she-ass.
Man taken to be sheep.
One person mistaken for another.
Horsemen thought to be men mounted on cattle.
Other creatures with mistaken identity.
Giant thought to be a hill.
Dead man is thought to be alive.
Dead mistaken for the living.
Fool lays his hand on demon in the dark, believing it is male goat he has come to steal.
Object thought to be animal.
Big tree thought to be snake.
Old sausage (roll) taken for frightening animal.
Object thought to be a turkey.
Bush thought to be elephant.
Island thought to be large dog.
One object thought to be another.
Pumpkin thought to be an ass's egg.
Boy thinks terrapin hatches from bedbug eggs.
Potatoes mistaken for "irregular eggs", or "eggs of the earth."
Dog mistakes mussel for an egg.
Coins thought to be red beans.
Coins thought to be uncooked cakes.
Culture hero's pubic hair thought to be bear hair.
Pubic hair of ardent husband's wife thought to be calf's tail by peasant in tree.
Man puts food bowl on head thinking it a helmet.
Fish bones in soup thought to be underdone peas.
Fools think evening star is morning star.
Cotton pods knocked off by bullock thought to be lumps of bullock's fat.
Excrements thought to be meat and therefore eaten.
Excrement thought to be berries.
Gun thought to be clarinet: one man blows, another presses the "keys".
Boot mistaken for an axe-sheath.
Foolish tiger thinks dog's tail is a gun.
Frog thinks cattle are distant country.
Eight-oared ferry-boat mistaken for an animal which must have long legs to wade the stream.
Objects thought to be the devil.
Steamship thought to be the devil.
Watch mistaken for the devil's eye.
Glowing wheel supposed to be the devil.
Things thought to be ghosts.
Robber or dog in church thought to be a ghost.
Cows in church thought to be ghost.
Dropping dough thought to be a ghost.
Sound of water dripping on dinner pail thought to be ghost using pick in mine.
Noise in house thought to be ghost.
Man sleeping in stable (abandoned cabin) thinks entering animals are ghosts: kills them.
Animal with lighted candle thought to be ghost.
Person in white thought to be ghost.
Sleep-walker thought to be a ghost until discovered.
Person in haunted house shoots off all his toes thinking they are ghosts.
Thing thought to be corpse.
Butter cask thought to be a dead man.
Things thought to be spirits.
Laughter of boy thought to be spirits' laughter.
Animals thought to be the devils or ghosts.
Grasshopper thought to be the devil.
Crab thought to be the devil.
Ass thought to be the devil.
Man sees Hereford cow at night; thinks it is devil, says, "Devil I deny thee! I am a psalmsinger and a worshiper of God!" England:
Baughman.
Man addresses colt: "Abide, Satan! I am a righteous man and a psalm singer."
Cat mistaken for devil.
Fox in coffer thought to be devil.
Black sheep thought to be the devil.
Man thought to be a devil or ghost.
Man costumed as demon thought to be devil; thieves flee.
Woman thought to be devil; thieves flee.
Man mistaken for Famine and Cholera in person.
Priest exorcising demon mistaken for demon and beaten to death.
Man thought to be devil by lion.
Men, on first seeing wives with hair, think they are witches and run away.
Lion thinks man astride him is monster: frightened.
Man reported to be dead so that people flee from him as from a ghost.
Things thought at night to be other frightful object.
Windmill thought to be holy cross (church, God).
Clock ticking thought to be gnawing of mice.
Numskull thinks his shadow is a man pursuing him.
Shadow mistaken for thief: is beaten.
Monkey seeing tiger attack his shadow is frightened so that he falls from tree.
Reflection in water thought to be the original of the thing reflected.
Drinking the moon.
Rescuing the moon.
Diving for cheese.
Wolf tries to drink well dry to get cheese.
Dogs by river try to get food in river by drinking the river dry.
Demon tries to recover object from river by drinking it dry.
Moon's reflection thought to be gold in water.
Jackals jump into well after drums and are killed.
Dog drops his meat for the reflection.
Diving for reflected enemy.
Shooting at enemy's reflection in water.
Man throws stone at own reflection in water.
Frog leaps into water after elephant's reflection.
Diving for reflection of beautiful woman.
Woman dives in water three times after reflected image of man peering down from a tree.
Ugly woman sees beautiful woman reflected in water and thinks it is herself.
Ogre sees beautiful woman reflected in water.
Man does not recognize his own reflection in the water.
Simpleton thinks his reflection in jar of melted butter is thief;
Goose dives for star, thinking it a fish.
Fools see bee's nest reflected in water: try to carry off the well.
Fool sees golden-crested bird reflected in water.
Diving for reflected fruit.
Elephant frightened at agitated reflection of moon in water.
Picture mistaken for original.
Dove sees painted cups of water and dashes into them.
Mask mistaken for face.
Statue mistaken for living original.
Image in mirror mistaken for picture.
Foolish demon sees his reflection in trickster's mirror and is convinced he has been captured.
Moonlight thought to be substance.
Men build hedge to keep in the moonlight.
Breath in the cold thought to be tobacco smoke.
Words in a foreign language thought to be insults.
"I don't understand." Learned words misunderstood by uneducated.
Not of legitimate birth.
Doctor's expressions misunderstood.
Conversation by sign language mutually misunderstood.
Other misunderstandings of words.
Similar sounding words mistaken for each other.
To cover house with straw.
Unusual word misunderstood.
Daughter says "Sobur" (wait) to her father when he asks what to bring from the journey.
Numskull referring to a forgotten name keeps saying "I have lost it."
A fool given money to buy something to eat; goes around asking for a thing called "something."
Setting sun mistaken for fire.
Other things with mistaken identities.
Old woman's sneeze mistaken for gunfire.
Animal cries misunderstood.
Owl's hoot misunderstood by lost simpleton.
The old maid answers the owl's hoot, saying "Anybody, Lord!" or giving the name of the young man she wants.
Frog's cries misunderstood.
Turkey's gobble misunderstood by man lost in woods.
Rooster's crow interpreted.
Henpecked husband leaves home.
Other sounds misunderstood.
Seeds rattling in pods thought to be insults.
Rabbits think sound of waves is great danger to them.
Fermenting dough: "Woe to you .
Hissing of fire thought to be noise of cooking muffins.
Noises fire is making misunderstood.
Snoring sounds misunderstood.
Numskull thief thinks snoring sleeper is asking for food.
Cooking processes misunderstood.
Mushrooms shrink in water.
Boiling milk thought to be overflowing.
Numskull thinks his prayers have stopped milk boiling over.
Boiling pumpkin thought to be talking.
Boiling pot on the floor thought to be self-cooking.
Fish dancing about in cooking pot appears to be many.
Handful of black pepper taken into mouth instead of cooking it in food.
Savory tea.
Sheep's head has eaten dumplings.
All the beans cooked for one meal.
Stupid servant cooks all the rice for one meal.
Numskull thinks boiling pot is threatening him: breaks pot.
Numskull stays till he has finished.
Did the calf eat the man? Fool thinks gold is being destroyed when snails crawl over
it.
Fool thinks belly is speaking to him; stabs himself.
Animal's action misunderstood.
Urination of bull thought to be bleeding.
Physical phenomena misunderstood--miscellaneous.
Fools think thorn bush doesn't sting at night.
Simpleton sleeping in cold room breaks window to let the cold out.
Fool wakes with sleeping mat over head and thinks it is still night.
Swimming (fishing) in the flax-field.
Trying to swim in the mist.
Sweeping with a stick instead of a broom.
Misunderstanding of church customs or ceremonies causes inappropriate action.
Misunderstandings concerning images of Christ.
Christ accused of trying to fool the people.
Christ's image has broken his arm.
The Lord has departed.
Numskull knocks the figure of Jesus from the ass.
Bishop struck for breaking the peace.
Numskull thinks the extinguishing of lights at the church presages a fight.
Move away from Moslem land so that Allah need not be feared.
Fatal bread.
Other misunderstandings of the communion.
Turkish ambassador misunderstands Christian ceremonies.
Christian laws are profitless, Turkish ambassador says.
The falcon not so good as represented.
The king no priest's son.
The obedient log.
Numskull throws the dishes out.
Jumping into the river after their comrade.
Numskull thinks the bishop's snoring is his death rattle.
Numskull shoots grasshopper which lighted on the shoulder of his friend and kills friend.
Boy strikes at a fly on his sister's breast: it turns into nipple and girl thinks it due to brother's caress.
One man strikes at partridge which has lighted on second man's head.
Numskulls lose corpse and bury live person instead.
Goat chewing cud angers fool, who thinks goat is mimicking him.
Fool not recognizing coins lying on roadside leaves them.
Man thinks own toe is snake's head and cuts it off.
Useless surgical operation from misunderstanding.
Numskull (female devil) thinks her pubic hair has been telling her lies and pulls it out together with the skin.
Fool cannot answer as his mouth is full; Bird protruding from king's stomach cut out with swords:
king killed.
Child's stomach split open to cure him of wandering.
Serfs congratulate their master.
Numskull prepares brother's wedding (father's funeral).
Inappropriate action from misunderstanding--miscellaneous.
Fool believes realistic story.
Story told about a deer: fool starts chase.
Jackdaw tries to swallow sparks from glowworm.
Numskull strikes all matches in order to try them.
Nobody can move it.
Gift to animal or object.
Gifts to frogs.
Numskull throws money to frogs so that they can count it.
Numskull feeds his wheat to frogs.
Numskull throws money to frogs to repay them.
Wool taken to pond for frogs and toads to weave.
Gifts to birds.
Gift to object.
Fool stops hole with money.
Thankful numskull puts money in the anus of sheep which he supposes has helped him.
Goods sold to animals.
Numskull sells cow to bird.
Fool sells balls of thread to great lizard.
Oil sold to iguana.
Goods sold to object.
Fool sells goods to a statue.
Money from the broken statue.
Food given to object.
Meat fed to cabbages.
Thief punishes the escaped ox.
The ass deprived of his saddle.
Cow punished for calf's misdeeds.
Man beats calves because the bull has butted him over the fence.
Wolf punished for his father's misdeeds.
Man flogs his shot.
Sickle punished by drowning.
Sickle punished by being tied in top of a tree.
Man avenges self on animals by wholesale slaughter.
Man avenges brother's death by wholesale slaughter of wild pigs.
Man punishes offending part of his body.
Man beats his foot for slipping.
Filling cracks with butter.
Creaking limbs.
Creaking wagon dies.
Helping the cuckoo.
Animals or objects kept warm.
Fool makes shoes for animals as well as men, since he expects a cold winter.
Cloak given to a stone to keep it warm.
Warming the stove with wool.
King orders houses built to keep howling jackals warm in winter.
Relieving the beast of burden.
Rider takes the meal-sack on his shoulder to relieve the ass of his burden.
Man puts bag of meal on one side of saddle, balances it on the other side with a rock.
Objects ascribed human feelings.
Kernel tries to escape death.
Complaint of the porridge pot.
The homesick wave.
Coin weeps.
Absurd sympathy for animals or objects--miscellaneous.
Men drag carts on to roof to shade it from the sun.
Animal or object expected to go alone.
Object sent to go by itself.
Cheeses thrown down to find their way home.
One cheese sent after another.
Three-legged pot sent to walk home.
Table thrown out of the sledge; to go home by itself.
Spinning wheel is sent home by itself.
Sickle laid in field and told to cut grain.
Fool sends letter home by a flooded river.
Animal sent to go by itself.
Ass loaded and commanded to go home.
Fools send money by rabbit.
Fishes to stop at his house.
Foolish attempt to educate animals.
Teaching chickens to talk.
The ass as mayor.
Elephant educated as drum beater.
Trickster joins bulrushes in a dance.
Simpleton addresses a field of reeds.
The boat gets tired.
Singing snails rebuked.
Hens in mourning.
The mad wheelbarrow.
Wants the organ to come and play for her.
Object foolishly blamed.
Sickness ascribed to quarreling wines.
Carpenter blames the nails.
Sea foolishly accused of cruelty.
Preserving the cock's freedom.
Scholar speaks Latin on hunt so that the birds cannot understand him.
Woman thinks calf's bleating has accused her of stealing from harvest.
Objects supposed to be born, grow, and die like animals.
Stones thought to reproduce.
Absurd ignorance concerning the laying of eggs.
The overfed hen.
Numskull feeds hens hot water so they will lay boiled eggs.
Absurd ignorance concerning the hatching of eggs.
Numskull sits on eggs to finish the hatching.
Numskull tries to hatch out a calf from a cheese.
Absurd ignorance concerning animal's eating and drinking.
The water on the calf's back.
Numskull puts the milk back.
Fattening the pig.
How can an elephant eat, having tails at both ends? Absurd ignorance concerning place for animal to be kept.
Cow (hog) taken to roof to graze.
The pent cuckoo.
Fools try to hedge the cuckoo so that they will have summer the year round (the coming of the first cuckoo being the sign of the coming
summer).
Deer belled and enclosed like goats jump fence and escape.
Hogs made to sleep in trees to cure their filthy habits.
Nest built in tree for fish.
Fish will climb trees like buffaloes.
Absurd ignorance about milking animals.
Fool does not milk cow for a month so that she will give plenty for a feast.
Fools try to milk male ass.
Divided ownership of cow.
Fool asks owner of oxen why he does not milk them since he is not working them.
Trying to have cows make curds before being milked.
Cow killed in order to get all the milk at once.
Absurd ignorance about slaughtering animals.
Bullock struck on hindquarters instead of head in attempt to kill it.
Absurd attempt to change animal nature.
The cat and the candle.
Cat transformed to maiden runs after mouse.
Frog-woman betrays self by croaking.
Absurd disregard of animal's nature or habits--miscellaneous.
Fisherman fails to make fish dance to his flute.
Fool tries to shoot dead antelope until it will come to him.
Numskull tries to shake birds from tree like fruit.
Breeding fine horses from an ass.
Sheep licking her lamb is envied by the wolf.
Numskull tries to wash black hen white.
Fear that frog may drown or get dirty.
Nature of a baby misunderstood.
Numskull does not understand about baby's skull.
Foolish mother does not understand how babies cry.
Horse taught to live without food.
The underfed warhorse.
Three brothers take turns using mule.
Fool carries wife across stream head downwards and drowns her.
Fatal disregard of anatomy--miscellaneous.
The remodelled stork.
Where the ducks ford.
The two extra pounds.
Fool cuts off tails of oxen so that they will look like fine steeds.
Genitals cut off through ignorance.
Ignorant bride castrates groom when jokingly told to do so.
Nun tells friar to get rid of offending member.
Fool undergoes castration to put on weight.
Simpleton's ignorance of anatomy leads him to share his wife with a priest.
Fool believes that he has begot child with his sister by an earbox.
The man without a member: foolish wife gives her husband money to buy himself one.
Cowboy shoots his wife when she breaks her leg (or is injured in another way).
The needle (or the like) falls into the sea: sought the next summer.
Marking the place.
Marking the place on the boat.
Marking the place under the cloud.
Fool seeks the ears of grain in the direction of the cloud toward which he has sowed them.
Marking the place in the sand.
The rejected bread resought.
Numskull forgets name of certain food and thinks that it has fallen into sand.
Money tested by throwing it into a stream to see if it will swim.
Absurd practices connected with crops.
Numskulls sow cooked grain.
Sowing cheese to bring forth a cow.
Sowing salt to produce salt.
Planting a hog in order to grow pigs.
Planting animal's tail in order to produce young animals.
Planting bones to produce animal.
Sowing needles (like seed).
Harvesting early for half a crop.
Stones watered to make them grow.
Numskull tries to dig up a well (spring).
A hole to throw the earth in.
Articles sent by telegraph.
Boots sent by telegraph.
How he looks in his sleep.
Man takes mirror to bed to see whether he sleeps with his mouth open.
Absurd ideas about the dead.
Dead man identified by his cough.
A healthy place for a tomb.
Porridge in the ice hole.
How far his voice will reach.
Holding in the heat.
Examining the sundial by candle-light.
Sundial covered in order to protect it.
Trying to get fruit from fruitless tree.
Numskulls try to get pears from an oaktree.
Warming hands across the river.
As tired as if he had walked.
Drying snow to make salt.
Fire and water mixed to make sacrifice.
Demand that murderer restore life to victim.
Woman runs after guest to tell him he must restore her husband whom he has unintentionally killed.
Absurd disregard of natural laws--miscellaneous.
Simpleton drives goats into a well, because he thinks it would be cooler for them.
Hot sickle put into water to cure its fever.
Substitute for the corpse.
White sheep-skin used as a source of light.
Trying to catch light in a mouse-trap.
The yeast as an afterthought.
The fool puts but one stick of wood in the stove.
Tree-trunks laid crosswise of the sledge.
Trying to stretch the beam.
Protected by the needle.
The wall accuses the crowbar.
Numskull bales out the stream.
Foolish fight with the sea.
Foolish fight with the sun.
Fools try to use buffalo tongue as a knife.
Stupid woman swims on the roof.
Tree pulled down in order to give it water to drink.
Fool tries to purify cotton by burning it (as the goldsmith does with gold).
Numskulls are affected by heat from stove which has no fire in it.
Mouth and ears stopped up lest wisdom escape.
Person does not know himself.
Numskull's beard cut off: does not know himself.
Woman's garments cut off: does not know herself.
Woman in tar and feathers does not know herself.
Fool in new clothes does not know himself.
Man does not know himself from another identically clad.
Fool at baths believes he is someone else.
Man made to believe that he is someone else.
White man made to believe that he is a negro.
Man made to believe that he is a dog.
Pumpkin tied to another's leg.
Numskull made to believe he is an evil spirit.
Fool does not recognize his own house and family.
His pupils grab a dog's tail and think it is their master's.
Man does not recognize his name when it is called: he is accustomed to hear his nickname.
Numskulls cannot find their own legs.
Numskull asks doctor which leg (own) is hurting him.
Numskull cannot find ass he is sitting on.
Numskull doesn't recognize his own horse.
Numskull rides backward.
Inability to find object one is carrying.
Man searches for axe which he carries on his shoulder.
Woman cannot find pastry which is sticking to her posterior.
Fools try to fight with man inside of drum who seems to make the noise.
Opium-smoker on journey asks his way about; ends up at his own house.
Counting wrong by not counting oneself.
Numskulls count selves by sticking their noses in the sand.
There are ten horses; then when he is mounted there are only nine.
Culture hero throws coconuts to various islands, but forgets one he stands on: hence none now on that island.
Are there nine or ten geese? Three girls distressed by seemingly impossible task of
going and returning together The interrupted calculation.
Keeping the measure by stretching out the arms.
Numskulls buy things in common: each pays full price.
Numskulls buy church in common: each pays full price.
Three brothers buy cow for common use; Actor forgets and speaks in his own person.
In Passion Play the Christ says, "I am thirsty"; the thief on the left speaks up, "I too."
Fool forgets master's message.
Fool believes plea of not guilty even though he has seen man injure him.
Law student forgets his speech.
Hero keeps on leading his horse without discovering that it is dead.
Given things for self and relatives, fool forgets to take his own.
Wise man short-sightedly scorned for his advice.
God's mercy contrasted with man's short-sightedness.
Quarrel and fight over details of air-castles.
Man plants hedge: sheep will leave wool on the thorns and bring riches.
To build a palace in the sky: hawk as architect is let fly in the air.
Fools cast lots for royal purple of queen who is still alive.
Air-castle shattered by lack of forethought.
Air-castle: the jar of honey to be sold.
Air-castle: basket of glassware to be sold.
Air-castle: basket of eggs to be sold.
Pot of flour to be sold: broken.
Air-castle: jar of oil to be sold.
Air-castle: pail of milk to be sold.
Air-castles: pail of milk to be sold.
Air-castle: to sell hide of sleeping deer.
Toad having found money daydreams and is run over.
Foolish illustration of argument.
Which way the sheep shall return.
Foolish logician upsets ghee in argument.
How was the town burned? Distress over imagined troubles of unborn child.
Queen grieves herself to death over fate of her children after her death.
Servant plans to deceive his master by refusing to eat.
Foolish waiting.
The hungry fox waits in vain for horse's scrotum (lips) to fall off.
The daw waits in vain for the figs to ripen in winter.
Men (animals) wait in vain for nuts to fall from a tree.
Waiting in vain for fruit to fall from a non-fruitbearing tree.
Wolf scorns salt meat (etc.) in false expectation of other booty.
Wolf waits in vain for the nurse to throw away the child.
Dog waits to be hit with meat.
Dog follows washerwoman with bundle hoping for meat.
Dupe waits for rear wheels of wagon to overtake front wheels.
Hare waits in vain for leaves to fall from palm tree.
Hare waits in vain for man's hand to fall off.
Sacrifice equal to the reward.
Sacrifice of one son to get another.
Three foolish wishes.
Short-sighted wish.
Short-sighted wish: Midas's touch.
Short-sighted wish: grain to grow without beards.
Short-sighted wish: all he pulls on will follow.
A man without a stomach.
Short-sighted wish: camel wishes a long neck.
Old woman demands something that she would remember all her life: her nose cut off.
Same wishes used wisely and foolishly.
Wise and foolish wish: keep doing all day what you begin.
Wise and foolish wish: help in whatever one is doing.
Twice the wish to the enemy.
The transferred wish.
Transferred wish wisely used as well as unwisely.
Two transferred wishes used unwisely: redeemed by wise use of third.
Woman disdainfully throws away pills; Wife granted wish for beauty, elopes with prince.
Absurdly modest wish.
Absurdly modest wish: no lights on certain night except in her own house.
Absurd wishes--miscellaneous.
Wife wishes to be turned to gold.
Foolish wish: to destroy all flies and spiders.
Foolish bargain: progressive type.
Foolish bargain: horse for cow, cow for hog, etc.
Foolish bargain: good fish for worthless shell; shell with pearl in it for small fish.
Fool exchanges his wife with ox; Fools sent to buy cow procure a monkey instead.
Squaring accounts by shaving the wife.
The foolish attempt to cheat the buyer.
One-third for the price of one-fourth.
Two for the price of one.
Seller of fox skins mixes otter skins with them.
Ten for the price of nine.
A heaping measure given for a level measure.
Selling more yards of goods for the money than they received.
Foolish reward offered.
Lost ass, saddle, and bridle offered as reward to the finder.
Man trades his only horse for a set of harness.
The foolish pawn.
The persuasive auctioneer.
The considerate seller.
The fool advises the buyer that the horse is worth little or his father would not sell it.
Seller advises buyer that cow is a thief.
Thief warned what not to steal.
Fool hides treasure and leaves sign "Here it is." The trusted porters.
Valuables given away or sold for trifle.
Numskull gives away the old water bag in which the money is hid.
Woman gives a jewel for a salad.
Fool ignorant of value of jewel throws it away.
Boy refuses pearls for worthless stones; jeweler recognizes them for what they are.
Good timber given for useless because wife says they will have only sickness and trouble.
Sacks of gold and silver traded for sacks of rice.
Gold and jewels sold for trifle.
Expensive wood burned to make charcoal.
To eat a hundred onions.
Stupid boy convinced that trading all his silver for worthless cup will gain people's respect.
Foolish bargain: miscellaneous.
Woman exchanges a horse for a sack of bones.
Getting rid of the cat.
Lighting the cat's tail.
Expensive means of being rid of insects.
Sleeping in shoes to avoid insect bites.
Snake rids himself of wasps: he lets himself be run over by a cart wheel along with them.
Bald man aims at a fly: hurts his head.
House burned down to rid it of insects.
House burned down to get rid of lizard.
Burning the wasp nest.
Clothes burned to rid them of insects.
Crop burned to rid it of insects.
Frogs to eat insects, snakes to eat frogs.
Expensive extermination of rodents.
The cat to guard the cheese.
The cat and the eel-pie.
Pursuing the rabbit who harmed the garden.
King ruins his garden to get rid of viper.
House burned down to get rid of rats.
Moving the fireplace.
Cleaning the church by moving it.
Protecting the prince's slumber.
Man kills self to make quarrelsome wife a widow.
Taming the bull by cutting off his horns.
Punishing the dog by feeding him.
Gray hair cured by pulling it out so that the person is bald.
Young wife pulls out his gray hairs; old wife his black.
Getting the calf's head out of the pot.
Man strikes off donkey's head to punish it.
Snakes in pond to be killed: eels also killed.
Fools take fatal overdose of medicine.
Remedies worse than the disease--miscellaneous.
Nose cut off to get it out of the light.
Improving the wife's face by cutting off her nose.
Straight path not always shortest.
Taking the short-cut.
One contestant chooses straight path through stones; other circles about and wins.
Noodles push parents over a rock as a favor to them.
Numskulls bore hole in boat in order to make water run out.
Stupid giant, seeing how fat he has become, wants to eat himself up.
How to save the rice.
Stupid cowherds apply hot iron to temples of unconscious man to revive him.
Cow tied tight with stones in order not to blow away, but is unable to do all others things too.
Hero beheads old woman who asks him to cure her of old age.
Drying snow on the stove.
Candle put in the stove to dry: melts.
Sunlight carried into windowless house in baskets.
Putting the fish aside for Easter.
Numskull sends meat home through kite (bird); kite devours it.
Guarding chickens from the fox.
Numskull to water roots of tree.
Trees cut down to gather fruit.
Looking for the hole.
Disregard of danger to objects or animals--miscellaneous.
Fools make a boat go over a precipice.
Quarreling heirs destroy the entire property involved.
Getting all the eggs at once.
Fool sticks needle in haywagon.
Old shoes patched with new.
Keeping rain from the trunks.
Horse drawn across ice till skin is rubbed off.
Fool sows his mother's seed rice on other people's fields.
Numskull injured.
Numskulls try to kill mosquitoes with bows and arrows: only injure themselves.
Numskull beaten.
Numskull tries to preach while the priest is preaching: beaten.
Numskull stung.
Bees caught in sack which is opened at home.
Numskull injures his limbs.
Girl hacks off her heel to get shoe on.
Fool cuts off his arms to wear sleeveless sweater.
Dupe persuaded to cut off part of his own body.
Man lays piece of wood on his leg to saw it: saws leg off.
Numskull puts out his eyes.
Looking through the gun barrel.
Numskull gets his head caught.
Trickster puts on buffalo skull: gets head caught.
Numskull licks out pot: gets it caught on his head.
Numskull sticks his head in the branches of a tree.
Numskull sticks his head into the hole of a millstone.
Wolf trying to catch tongue of camel puts head in camel's mouth: killed.
Jackal's head caught in pot of blue dye.
Fox trying to drown jug.
Numskull dragged.
Man catches buffalo by rope and is dragged to death.
Numskull ties the rope to his leg as the cow grazes on the roof.
Fool ties rope to his leg and to dog.
Hand bound to dog's leash: person dragged.
Milker ties cow's tail to himself.
Jackal ties captive crow to his tail.
Numskull rides on tiger's back.
Animal allows himself to be tied to another's tail and is dragged to death.
Other animal's tail tied to tiger's (leopard's): killed when tiger flees.
Numskull falls.
Camel with ass on his back dances.
Monkey jumps over a ravine with his sword girded on.
Cat crawls to steeple and tries to fly.
Coyote attempts to fly from a treetop: falls.
Numskull cuts off tree-limb on which he sits.
Men hang down in a chain until top man spits on his hands.
Wife carried up tree to sky in bag in husband's teeth.
Servant carrying master across stream answers question with gesture that throws master off.
Numskull going to heaven holding on tail of divine elephant, looses his hold to make gesture.
Three men in a tree sing song and clap hands: they fall down and die.
Wolves climb on top of one another to tree: lowest runs away and all fall.
Measuring the tower by piling up hampers.
Intruding wolf falls down chimney and kills himself.
Stargazer falls into well.
Blind leading blind falls into pit.
Monkey jumps into water after a butterfly.
Hedgehog and crab jump from boat after turtle.
Woman tries to climb rope of excrement and urine.
Fool dangling from tree by hands tries to clap them together: falls.
Fool re-enacts the accident.
How was the pigeon killed? Fool aims stone at inquirer saying, "I struck him like this."
Numskull makes himself sick (uncomfortable).
Trickster eats scratch-berries.
Trickster eats medicines that physic him.
Numskulls eat medicine that physics them.
Numskull starves himself.
Fasting the first month.
Numskull brings about his own capture.
Coyote wears fox's rattle; caught in brush and injured.
Trickster gets caught on a fishhook.
Goat eats in garden and is caught.
Trickster pinched by shellfish (crab).
Careless thief caught.
Thief stops to admire beautiful things before stealing them.
Thief debates whether to take one thing or another.
Talkative thief caught.
Thief of deer cuts it up and keeps counting pieces.
Numskull as thief's assistant wakens owner.
Foolish thief cooks food and awakens household.
Foolish thief asks help of owner.
Master asked to help in the theft.
Thieving numskull beats drum (blows trumpet, etc.) he finds in outhouse.
Thieves disposed of one at a time.
Thieving wolf persuaded to sing.
Animal caught in animal carcass.
Greedy jackal caught in carcass of dead bullock.
Death through lack of foresight.
The louse invites the flea.
Dogs of wolf color join the wolves.
Bee rests on water lily which closes over it at night and kills it.
Crocodile swallows water-snake, which kills him.
Sheep killed by the butcher, who they are persuaded will spare them.
Camel and ass together captured because of ass's singing.
King attempts to visit the spirit world underground and dies in a tunnel.
Foolish interference in quarrel of the strong fatal to the weak.
Sparrow intervenes in quarrel between elephants: crushed to death.
Disastrous jump to retrieve lost object.
Miser jumps into a ravine to retrieve single grain.
Man leaps into river and drowns in effort to save his treasure.
Short-sightedness in dressing.
Jumping into the breeches.
Pulling on the shirt.
Lacing the shoes.
Short-sighted use of fire.
Burning the temple to attain notoriety.
Fool whose house is burning puts wood on the fire.
Quenching the burning boat.
Carrying the plow horse so as not to tramp up the field.
Numskulls carry one another through mud and the others back in order that not all get dirty.
Sedan-bearers must carry master about searching for dog since they have refused to search.
Short-sightedness in rowing.
Rowers pull in opposite directions.
Rowing in a boat which is tied up.
Carrying load up hill to roll it down.
Short-sighted lover is slow to follow up advantage.
Porridge eaten in different rooms.
The slaughter of the ox.
Short-sightedness in carpentry.
Short-sightedness in boat-building.
Ship built with a wooden saw.
The ogre tars the hero's boat, thinking to injure him.
Dupe makes boat of mud.
Attempts to make canoe of sand.
Building boat of clay.
Short-sightedness in roofing.
Does not need roof when it is fair; cannot put it on when it rains.
Fool roofs his house on the inside.
Builders throw away beams from the scaffolding until it all falls down.
The axes thrown away.
Bird nest of salt melts away.
Man on camel has doorway broken down so he can ride in.
Short-sightedness in caring for live-stock.
The shepherd who cried "Wolf!" too often.
Shepherd shuts up the lion in the yard with the live-stock.
Wolf almost locked up in the stable by the shepherd.
Wolf locked up with the sheep.
Short-sighted fool loses his food.
Sleeping trickster's feast stolen.
Getting a sword to lift the cheese.
The bird boasts about capturing the rabbit.
Deer lost through premature celebration.
Fool kills chickens by throwing them off a balcony against a stone.
Crocodile goes after the second child.
Trickster travels while fish cook: they burn up.
Man saves trouble by milking cow directly into his mouth.
How to remove hairs from salt.
Foolish demands before death.
His last request: a red cap.
Wholesome food for the day of hanging.
Having the head dressed before hanging.
Hang me right away so I can get back to work.
Short-sightedness in dealing with children.
Anticipatory whipping.
Priest beats wife before purchasing food since he wishes her to cook it in particular way.
Scolding the drowning child instead of helping him.
Absent-minded nurse lets child down into well instead of bucket.
Man lets his infant son play in river.
Numskull is sent to fetch children.
Numskull kills his children trying to cure their illness.
Fool lets wine run in the cellar.
Fool tries to dry up spilt wine with meal.
Drinking gruel by making hole in pot.
No room left for the feast.
Master sets servant example by eating rind first: fills up and never reaches the fruit.
Burning up the seal.
A fleeing fox loses an eye in the briars.
Disastrous hesitation.
The dog between the two castles.
Who shall go first? Bird overcareful about food suitable to its color is killed
by eagle.
Two prisoners use up their hour of grace disputing over road to take home.
Princess who is too choosy finally marries an idiot.
Short-sightedness in case of fire.
Whose duty to put out fire? The polluted clothes.
Dearly bought disgrace.
"If you had hanged me you would have really been in trouble."
Trickster's false creations fail him.
The bear riding the horse lets his paws fall on the horse's flanks.
The man who wanted to be dead one day.
A fool releases a bear while the master is away.
The messenger without the message.
Message after a week.
Fool has himself buried because he stinks.
Raven steals the robes of Red Willow Men and finds them useless.
People pelt each other with food.
Grain shot down with guns.
Carpe diem.
Bewailing a calamity that has not occurred.
Absurd shortsightedness--miscellaneous.
Alarm sounded foolishly.
Fool rings bell to announce that he has won at chess.
Woman to sound bell for help in childbirth persuaded to sound false alarms: not heeded when help is needed.
Persons build a wheelbarrow too large to come out of shed.
Nine men try to lift bull over the fence.
Short-sighted economy.
Numskull is glad to hurt his feet instead of his shoes.
Differences in animal nature overlooked.
Frogs reprove ass for lamenting when he falls into morass.
Why the sow was muddy.
The murderous master.
Ass brays on hearing a conch shell.
Effects of age and size absurdly applied.
Two fifteen-year old slaves ordered: fool brings one thirty years old.
Priest to have maid at least fifty years old: gets one aged twenty and one aged thirty.
Burial in old grave to deceive angel.
Wooden anchor would hold if it were only large, thinks the fool.
The reef is old, the ship new.
Swift when only a calf.
The Zodiac grows up: the Kid becomes the Goat.
Boat expected to grow into ship.
Peasant no longer wants a horse since the new born foal is so heavy to carry.
Our children know local road; odd that grown stranger does not.
Illogical use of numbers.
Each of two persons wants to sleep in the middle.
A profitable fight: three for one! A priest boasts of his profitable fight with the peasants, where he has received three blows for every
one given.
The seventh cake satisfies.
If the horse can pull one load he can pull two.
Twenty better than ten.
More than twenty commandments.
Selling his half of the house.
Dentist duped to pull out two teeth for one because of the expensiveness.
Man prefers small oysters, since he will get more to the hundred.
Numskull finds that one feather makes a hard pillow, thinks a sackful would be unbearable.
Absurd generalization from a particular incident.
Peas will burn.
Conclusion: youth and age are alike.
Waiting at the well for the thief.
Waiting in the graveyard for the thief.
Waiting for the thief to return for the bolster.
Waiting for the thieves to return for invoice of goods stolen.
Human milk as best diet (for baby).
Man is servant of the animals (for he supplies feed for them).
Men must have been calves once (for they are fond of milk).
Oil is cheap (or spilling oil is good luck).
Fool carries his wife to the remedy instead of the opposite.
Dipping into cold water to cure fever, since hot iron is so cooled.
Starving colt fierce from hunger, but fool refuses to feed it lest it become fiercer.
England must be full of widows.
False judgment of distance in clear atmosphere of mountain area.
Newcomer undresses to swim a five-foot stream.
Absurd reasoning about God.
God's wastefulness.
The servant of God beaten.
Man honored above God: the dead hen.
Fool waits for God to provide.
God blamed for scarcity of food.
God blamed for heavy rain.
God blamed for letting pumpkin vines produce larger fruit than nut trees.
Poor man thinks idol in temple is poorer than he since it is naked.
Many times the superlative.
Man says: "That's the best horse in all England, but I have one in my stable worth ten of him.
Man is describing lakes.
How does he know? The inconvenience of having a father:
The thief as discoverer.
Robbed man blames thief for not warning him so that he could have witnesses to the theft.
Taking the seed out at night.
Three reasons for not giving alms.
Learn to swim before going into the water.
Let them eat cake.
King ignorant of famine says the people can live on pulse (sugar) and rice.
Loss of eating contest because of weak legs.
Why can't we have holidays the year round? Imitation and the real pig.
Logically absurd defenses.
Innocent man executed because his neck fits the noose (or the like).
Men hang old bedridden weaver instead of young, valuable member of colony after the young man has accidentally killed an Indian.
"Is that you or your brother?" Would have shot himself.
Only fault with the house.
The bathroom in the minaret.
Book gives wisdom.
The doctor no longer needed.
Useless trip to find a name the wife already knew.
Servant sent to doctor finds trip futile.
Carrying his own message.
Scribe cannot write a letter because he has bad leg.
Fool writes letter very slowly: recipient cannot read fast.
Fool sleeps so as to avoid idleness.
Climb down as you climb up.
Every fruit tasted.
Fools reprove each other for speaking at prayers.
Preliminary drawing of swords.
Boy cannot read a book written with smaller letters than those he was reading at school.
Absurd theories concerning the moon.
The local moon.
What becomes of the old moon? Lightning made from the old moon.
Stars made from the old moon.
Numskulls try to throw the moon over a cliff.
Numskulls attempt to capture moon and bring it home in a sledge.
Absurd theories concerning the sun.
Chanticleer believes that his crowing makes the sun rise.
Is today's sun the same as yesterday's? Fools believe sun sleeps at certain woman's house.
Absurd theories concerning the sky.
Bird thinks that the sky will fall if he does not support it.
Absurd theories about the earth.
Why everyone doesn't live in the same place.
Same air at home as abroad.
Same climate at home and abroad.
Absurd theories about the stars.
Falling star supposed to have been shot down by astronomer.
Absurd theories concerning time.
Dinner time comes soon in mountains because of rare atmosphere.
Absurd theories about clouds.
Clouds supposed to come from smoke.
How the fishes got there.
A drunkard cannot drown.
The four-footed bishop.
What killed the wolf.
Foolish interpretation of omens.
Fool believing in omens refuses to prepare for death.
Belief that island may be towed by ships to new location.
Gullible husbands.
Husband takes back faithless wife on her oath to be faithful.
His wife has become a widow.
Gullible husband removes from wife's garment dust gathered while she lies with another man.
Gullible wives.
Gullible mother.
Person made to believe that he is dead.
Wife makes her husband believe that he is dead.
Numskull is told that he is to die when his horse breaks wind three times.
Man believes he is to die when he breaks wind.
Numskull is told that he will die when his mouth bleeds.
Man believes, he will die when water falls on his head.
Numskull believes he is dead when pumpkin falls on his head.
Man believes he will die when he gets a scarlet thread on his coat.
Fool, told yellowing soles of his feet sure sign he is going to die, digs his grave and lies in it.
The "poisoned" pot.
Sham revenant.
The dead man speaks up.
The dead man in spite of himself.
Supposed dead man on bier threatens his bearers.
Sham-dead man punished.
Cold hands and feet for the dead man.
Parents made to believe that they are dead and are married to each other again.
Foolish peasants carry couple to burial; when "corpses" speak they flee in terror.
Drunken man insists that he be beheaded.
Idiot tells his mother he has been dead twelve years.
Supposed dead man roused with whip.
Naked person made to believe that he is clothed.
Layman made to believe that he is a monk.
Wife persuades husband that she has returned immediately.
Wife leaves home, offers self to lover.
Gullible husband made to believe he has cut off his wife's nose.
Husband made to believe that his house has moved during his absence.
Man cannot recognize his own house which has been turned into a mansion by emperor.
Well man made to believe that he is sick.
Man thinks that he has diabetes.
Numskull convinced that he is a thief.
Man made to believe that he is pregnant (has borne child).
Parson made to believe that he will bear a calf.
Man thinks he has given birth to a child by letting wind.
Husband makes wife and mother-in-law believe he will bear a sheep.
Drunken man made to believe that he has been to heaven and hell.
Numskull believes that he is married to a man.
Wife persuades her husband to have a good tooth pulled.
Husband made to believe that yarn has changed to tow through his carelessness.
Fool believes gold in bag turns to ashes because of child's urinating on it.
The student from paradise.
Foolish woman gives swindler money for her parents in heaven.
Dream explained as a dead father's demand for horses.
Emperor wants to travel to paradise.
Alleged messenger from relatives in distress given goods to deliver.
Man who asks for good weather given a box full of hornets.
The moving church tower.
Numskull with unimportant office boasts of it.
Proud sheriff has only nine farmers in his jurisdiction.
Fool appointed to fictitious office boasts of it.
Fool locked in dark room made to believe that it is continuous night.
The sledges turned in the direction of the journey.
Master persuaded to buy big fish since small ones creep out of all parts of his body.
The stag with iron shoes.
Jewess makes parents believe that she is to give birth to the Messiah.
Dupe persuaded that he is invisible.
Adulteress makes husband believe that the birth of her mulatto child has been due to suggestion.
Near-sighted man persuaded by doctor that he can see.
Husband refuses to believe in wife's infidelity.
Husband refuses to believe that his wife is unfaithful, even when she is caught in the act.
Husband away three years accepts children born in his absence as his own.
Woman gives birth to child fourteen months after husband's departure.
Cuckolded "as per instructions." She knows best: woman denies accusation of adultery.
Husband praises wife's fidelity.
Only husband remains ignorant about his wife's infidelity.
Fool kissed in sleep.
Fool's errand.
Occupational tricks on new employees.
Dupe is persuaded that money will grow if he buries it.
Nature of gullibility--miscellaneous.
Dupe is made to believe horse will fly.
Wife makes husband believe that her paramour is Death.
Credulous king reads about ocean of milk and its properties.
The woman who asked for news from home.
Animal betrays himself to his enemies by talking.
Fox holds conversation with his members, attracts attention, and is caught.
Hidden wolf gives himself away by talking.
Dupe loses booty through singing.
Wolf (bear) boasts of having eaten horses.
Talkative man betrays his companion.
His brother cannot pray either.
The wife multiplies the secret.
Foolish boasts get man into trouble.
Numskull talks about his secret instructions and thus allows himself to be cheated.
Fool loses magic objects by talking about them.
Boy talks about his secret instructions and brings his father's theft to light.
Fool's talking causes himself and companions to be robbed.
Tortoise speaks and loses his hold on the stick.
Young heir too frank in celebrating his father's death.
Talkative animals incense master.
Numskull amuses with his discursive nonsense.
Incognito mistress breaks off relations when she overhears the lover discussing the adventure.
Fool discloses woman's adultery; lover kills him.
Warrior reveals camping place.
Fool points out hiding place to evil spirits.
Children ask parents too difficult questions.
Absurd scientific speculations.
Scientific query: why does not the sea get larger when it rains in it and nothing flows out?
Scientific query: why does the sea stink when it is full of salt?
Scientific query: why don't rats stick their eyes out in the straw?
Scientific query: why don't the poor, being in the majority, kill off the rich?
The judge wants to know how the theft was committed.
The tailless and earless ass.
How the first man killed himself.
Curiosity satisfied: riding the ox's horns.
Testing the evidence by experiment: biting the ear off.
The philosophical watchman.
What will the robber do? Question: did the man ever have a head?
How did the cow get on the pole? Pity for the poor Jews.
How blind men get about.
Experiment in gravity.
Fatal imitation.
Foolish imitation of miracle (magic).
Imitation of magic rejuvenation unsuccessful.
Foolish imitation of sham death and return (= resuscitation).
Unsuccessful imitation of a god: lions fall out of the furnace instead of men covered with gold and silver.
Imitation of miraculous horse-shoeing unsuccessful.
Unsuccessful imitation of magic production of food.
Imitation of magician unsuccessful.
Alleged return from land of dead with bags of gold persuades dupe to try to imitate.
Imitation of jumping into fire without injury: dupe burned up.
Sister of goddess tries to imitate her feat of being cooked without harm and dies in the attempt.
Imitation of magic production of garden and lake unsuccessful.
Unsuccessful imitation of magic sewing.
Obedient woman's pestle remains magically suspended in air.
Foolish imitation of healing.
Hot onion to the eye.
Pulling out the eye so that the pain will cease.
Imitation of the prescription.
Imitation of diagnosis by observation: ass's flesh.
Imitation of diagnosis by observation: stick under table.
Healing with the cherry tree.
Sick woman hung in well to cool off: drowned.
Foolish physician cauterizes "sick" cartwheel to stop it from creaking; burns it up instead.
Fool claims to cure goitre by striking.
Foolish imitation by an animal.
Ass tries to caress his master like the dog.
Ass imitating dog brays so as to wake master when thieves are robbing him.
Ass tries to jump on the roof like the ape.
Daw tries to carry off lamb like eagle.
Animal dupe cuts off limb.
Fowl makes another animal believe that he has had his leg cut off.
Fowl makes another animal believe that he has had his neck cut off.
Monkey cuts his throat, thinking that he is imitating the cobbler.
The dog imitates a wolf.
Monkey sneezes in king's presence like rabbit.
Crane tries to catch fish like hawk.
Jackal tries to roar like lion at elephant.
Raven tries to imitate dove's step but breaks his bones.
Foolish imitation of lucky man.
The two presents to the king: the beet and the horse.
The gift of the donkey.
The two presents to the king: two poems.
Picking the louse and the flea.
Crab tries to imitate bird who lays egg in pot of boiling water.
Fairies help forgotten child, but strangle child trying to imitate good luck.
Ascetic imitates Brahmin's practices.
Pig sees goat return decked with ornaments and plenty of food;
A snake for the real daughter.
Poor man foolishly imitates rich.
Foolish imitation of leader.
Company to sing like leader.
To imitate the leader.
The fool spits in the hot porridge.
The scythe cuts one man's head off.
The eye-juggler.
The sharpened leg.
The bungling host.
Numskull wants to be shaved too.
Numskull praises his daughter as being pregnant.
Numskull puts money into the exchange so as to participate in the business.
A man undertakes to do his wife's work.
Men exchange duties: each wants to get better of the other, but is cheated, finding the other's work more difficult.
Man saved from well by rope.
Protecting as the stork does.
Disastrous following of misunderstood instructions.
What should I have done (said)? Literal following of instructions about actions.
Literal numskull drags jar (bacon) on string.
Literal numskull is gay at a fire.
Literal numskull sings entertaining songs on approach of death.
Literal numskull throws water on roasting pig.
Literal numskull cuts peas into four parts.
Literal fool is told to cook a few peas for five persons.
Literal fool puts three empty measures in pot.
Literal fool strangles the hawk.
Literal fool carries the harrow in his hand.
Numskull told to steal something heavy brings millstone.
Numskull as thief: tries to carry off grinding-stone when told by confederates to bring out heavy things.
Literal numskull destroys inherited property since his sister has instructions not to object to his actions.
Literal following of instructions about greetings.
Literal numskull kisses a pig.
Fool learns to repeat commonplace expressions: by chance thus scares off wife's suitors.
Literal numskull laughs at his child's death.
Master tells servant (sarcastically) to take a year to do errand.
Numskull told not to forget to get the handsel Literal fool: fool told to follow his nose in a journey,
runs head against tree, climbs it.
To sell some cloth for four rupees.
Asking favor when master is in good humor.
Numskull told to attract girl's attention by throwing pebble at her flings large stone which breaks her head.
Foolish bridegroom follows instructions literally.
The dog Parsley in the soup.
Casting sheep's eyes at the bride.
Foolish husband puts out wife's eyes at night because he heard that a beautiful wife is an enemy.
The foolish bride.
Foolish bride gives away dowry.
Marrying a stranger.
The servant to improve on the master's statements.
Disastrous following of instructions.
Feeding the pigs wet meal.
Watering the cow (by pouring water on it).
Piling up the pottery.
Feeding the child.
Shoving the child.
Feeding mother.
Washing the child.
Heating water for woman to wash in.
Clearing out the room.
Washing the room.
Oh bother! put it on my head! Numskulls asking old woman where to put grain obey and smother her.
Cutting at the plow.
"Sew shirts for servants." "Collect goats under tree."
Fool takes threat to child as an order.
Plowing above the tree.
"Plowing out potatoes." Literal following of the count.
A pebble for each sin.
The reckoning of the pot.
The long day.
Instructions followed literally--miscellaneous.
A lentil in the soup.
Taking the prescription.
Dividing all they have.
Man gives up half property.
Boy asked to do something to cool women's ears breaks vessels they carry so milk in them can cool their ears off.
Literal fool--something you have never experienced.
Literal fool feeds dogflesh to visitor to follow father's advice: "Feed him on food you have never eaten in your life."
Literal obedience: soldier breaks woman's oil pot in two with sword when she asks him to show her something she never has seen in life.
"Taking a pattern (picture) of conduct" "Skinning farmers".
Peasant opens his mouth.
The hunter's mass.
"Greasing the judge's palms." The literal host: bread and salt.
Christ has too many debts.
The numskull buys water at market.
The horse that went like a ship.
The fool is told that his son has given up the ghost.
The house without food or drink.
Father tells son that he has been scratched by "hairy rascals" (monkeys).
What is behind you.
Numskull wants to see an abstract quality.
Numskull dragon wants to see courage.
Sultan tries to prove to Adversity he cannot be seized at specified time and hides in a sewer.
Metaphors literally interpreted--miscellaneous.
Fool interprets metaphors (or slang expressions) about drink.
"Keep locks of everyone in your hand" "Bite the ear"
"Cutting the paper of the accounts" "Quieting the patient."
Giving half of savings away: "Have a black look"
"Cover with straw." "Stick fast to everything you undertake."
Payment with "something or other." "Don't allow paint to wear off my daughter's feet."
Making money.
"Never show your head again." Clothing the servant.
Putting fear into him.
Names of dogs literally interpreted.
Getting a box on the ears.
Religious words or exercises interpreted with absurd literalness.
Praying to the nearer virgin.
Debtors do not forgive.
Did not want to be Christ.
Peasants want a living God.
Numskulls believing that God has reposed on a leaf want to cross river on one.
"I don't know" thought to be a person's name.
Boy who worked for "nothing at all" goes to town and demands "nothing at all."
Misunderstandings because of lack of knowledge of a different language than one's own.
"Honey is sweet." Repeating the ceremony.
The imitative choir.
Priest's words repeated.
Literal fool--additional motifs.
"Till the front sweats." Not naked but with a hood on.
Fool admits crime but pleads mistakes in the details of the accusation.
Brings back all stolen cattle possible.
"God is everywhere." Conventional greeting phrase taken literally: "Come and
share it." Three stupid sons sent out into the world to learn trades:
The silence wager.
Wager as to who shall rise (speak) first in morning (last up to get reward).
Husband to spite wife plays dead.
Silence wager: man and wife taken for dead.
Numskulls make silence wager.
The fool and the visitor's large nose.
Plenty of holy water.
Sickle bought at great cost given back.
Directions followed literally to the sorrow of the giver.
Literal misconstruction of order.
Think thrice before you speak.
"Pick up everything!" "Pick up everything!"
"Do nothing but attend to the horse." Wife follows written instructions.
The polite rescuers.
Command to use only one phrase.
"Only light the fire." To tell nothing else than "very good news."
"Do not leave my side." "Hang out lanterns."
"Let no one in." Remove turban as last duty.
To draw out fence stakes and throw them down.
"Foresee the possible event." Couldn't wait to dress.
Absurd extreme of discouragement.
Fool kills himself in despair because a sparrow has taken one grain from his field.
Fool kills himself in despair because an ox has been killed.
Extreme prudery.
The man is accused of maintaining a brothel.
Rebuke for going with a naked head in public.
Girl marries man so she will not be ashamed undressed in his presence.
Breaking the glassware to prevent others from doing so.
The obedient husband: the leave of absence.
Obedient husband hangs his wife.
Obedient husband walks slowly.
Fool liking salt decides to eat nothing else.
Fool will not drink from a river because he cannot drink it all.
Equal share in the bed.
Thief out of habit robs from his own purse.
Letter believed against clear evidence.
Bureaucrats debate as to who shall put out palace fire: meantime palace burns.
"Don't eat too greedily." Fool thanks God that he was not sitting on the ass when it
was stolen.
Thankful that the recipe is left.
"Thank God they weren't peaches!" "Thank God that camels have no wings."
Fool thankful that God has built a palace without columns.
One fewer to pay for.
"Thank God it's over!" "Thank Fortune I'm out of business."
"Thank Fortune it wasn't a melon." Heart may not be able to stand winning mistress.
Person frightened into falling down a cliff.
The attack on the hare (crayfish).
Surrender to the rake.
Fools frightened by stirring of an animal.
Fools are frightened at the humming of bees.
Fools frightened at the flight of a quail.
Lions flee because of the crowing of white cock, elephants because of swine's grunting.
Fright at the creaking of a wheelbarrow.
Fright at noise of mill.
The hawk frightened at the snipe's bill.
Afraid of his knees.
The sleeper answers for the dead man.
The dead girl frightens father and lover.
Fool frightened by stirring of the wind.
Tailor puts on thimble as protection from slug.
Fright at animals' eyes in the dark.
Coward is frightened when clothing catches on thistle.
Coward boasts of what he would have done after danger is over.
Cornered paramour threatens the husband.
Frightened by fireworks.
Boastful coward frightened when he sees strong adversaries.
Fools try to frighten one another, but get scared themselves and both flee.
Tiger frightened of leak in house.
Fearing the earthquake.
Bungling fool has succession of accidents.
The fool accidentally kills his child and loses the body.
The fool seeks a midwife.
One woman to catch squirrel; the other to get the cooking pot.
The boy's disasters.
Sent back for the rest of the money.
The awkward servant.
The cup with two and three handles.
Servant injures master while shampooing him.
The bungling speaker.
"I am as good as you are." The fool testifies: "I had been drinking and was lying on
the bench asleep.
The fool betrays his brothers.
The forgetful fool.
A fox or a hare? Fool keeps repeating his instructions so as to remember
them.
Fool's talking to himself thought to be inappropriate greetings.
Bungling fool forgets what elephant is called.
Foolish messenger muddles message.
The stolen bedcover.
Bungling rescuer caught by crab.
Buyer draws picture of grindstone on his order list.
How the tower was built.
"What do I hold in my hand?" Guess what I have in my hand and I will give it to you to
make egg-cake with.
Guess how many eggs I have and you shall get all seven.
The father of Noah's sons.
How to find if it is raining.
Men must go to look in the pool to see if rain is falling.
Man put out tubs to see if rain is still falling.
Why he couldn't see.
Telling their horses apart.
Trickster's greed while hunting causes him to be deserted.
Contest won by magic.
Magic animal wins contest for man.
Magic bullock wins fight for master.
Animals help man in contest.
Fortune to go to direction cat jumps.
Substitute in contest.
Relative substitutes in contest.
Young knight substitutes for old man in tournament.
Supernatural substitute in tournament for pious warrior.
Woman substitutes for husband in combat.
Wise man disguised as monk beats learned heretic in debate.
Contest with magician won by deception.
Race won by deception.
Man challenges devil to race.
Race won by deception: relative helpers.
Race won by deception: riding on the back.
Hare and tortoise race: sleeping hare.
Race won by deception: chariot disabled.
Race won by deception: sham-sick trickster.
Race won by deception: rabbit as "little son" substitute.
Race won by deception: blinding opponent by spitting pepper into face.
Race won by deception: bow and arrow.
Obstacle race between deer and hare.
Wrestling match won by deception.
Wrestling match won by deception: where to throw the ogre.
Wrestling match won by deception: bear as "grandfather." Wrestling match: Antaeus.
Wrestling match of man with fever.
Wrestling between porcupine and deer.
Boxing match: fatal boxer defeated.
Rowing contest won by deception.
Rowing contest won by deception: magic boat.
Climbing match won by deception.
Climbing match won by deception: squirrel as "child".
Diving match won by deception.
Diving match won by deception: breathing under brush.
Diving match: trickster eats food while dupe is under water.
Jumping contest won by deception.
Contest: jumping into the ground.
Contest: who can go deepest into the earth? Contest in jumping from the church tower.
Contest in jumping into a trap.
Jumping frog contest.
Throwing contest won by deception.
Throwing contest: trickster shouts.
Throwing contest: trickster addresses Angel Gabriel.
Throwing contest: trickster addresses Angel Gabriel or St.
Peter, Throwing contest: golden club on the cloud.
Throwing contest: bird substituted for stone.
Deceptive tug-of-war.
Deceptive shinny match.
Deception in swinging contest.
Flying contest won by deception.
Flying contest won by deception: riding on the other.
Contest in flying with load.
Blowing contest won by deception.
Riding contest won by substitution.
Tournament won by deception on borrowed horse.
Shooting contest won by deception.
Contest: shooting an unheard-of bird.
Shooting test won by deception: proof of good sight.
Shooting contest won by deception: bird substituted for arrows.
Trapping contest won by deception.
Harpooning contest won by deception.
Plowing contest.
Plowing contest won by deception: hare exchanged for horse.
Pig and dog as plowmen.
Harvesting contest.
Contest: harvesting the hay.
Threshing contest.
Mowing contest won by trickery.
God cheats devil at mowing.
Deceptive contest in chopping.
Deceptive contest in chopping: iron in bamboo.
Tree-pulling contest.
Sewing contest won by deception.
Sewing contest won by deception: the long thread.
Contest in bridge-building won by deception.
Waking contest won by deception.
Waking contest won by giving opponent soporific.
Contest in seeing sunrise first.
Contest in seeing sunrise first: sun on the trees.
Contest in seeing sunrise first: sleeper wins.
Deceptive contest in fasting.
Contest in pushing hole in tree: hole prepared beforehand.
Contest in squeezing water from a stone.
Contest in biting a stone.
Hero to eat iron grains.
Contest: pulling on steak with teeth.
Dream contests.
Absurd contest won by deception--miscellaneous.
Contest with magician in bringing grain out of closed bamboo: trickster brings culm-borers to make holes.
Deceptive contest in carrying a tree: riding.
Deceptive contest in carrying a horse.
Deceptive contest in squeezing hands.
Deceptive contest in pulling fingers.
Deceptive eating contest.
Deceptive eating contest: hole in bag.
Deceptive eating contest: relative helpers.
Deceptive eating contest: inexhaustible food.
Contest: who will eat least.
Deceptive drinking contest.
Deceptive drinking contest: hole for water.
Deceptive drinking contest: rising and falling tide.
Attempted intoxication avoided by boring a hole in the bottom of cup.
Deceptive drinking contest: relative helpers.
Deceptive contest in drinking whisky.
Deceptive drinking contest: pretended swallowing.
Deceptive scratching contest.
Scratching contest: man's wife shows wounds.
Scratching contest with devil: man's wife shows scratches in her oak table.
Contest in scratching skin off each other: covering self with several ox-hides.
Deceptive vocal contests.
Contest in shrieking or whistling.
Contest in seeing.
Contest in hearing.
Deceptive laughing contest.
Laughing contest: dead horse winner.
Cursing contest.
Gambling contest won by deception.
Gambling contest: coin which attracts fly first to win.
Game won with loaded dice.
Girl distracts opponent's attention so that gambling lover wins.
Finger-drying contest won by deception.
Duel won by deception.
Boar in duel with tiger cakes mud on body: defeats tiger.
Combat won by means of substituted weapons.
Beauty contest won by deception.
Beauty contest won by deception: other contestants covered with leaves.
Pseudo-magic treasure-producing objects sold.
Alleged gold-dropping animal sold.
Alleged bill-paying hat sold.
Pseudo-magic wealth-providing bag sold.
Pseudo-magic formula for making gold sold to king.
Pseudo-magic food-producing object sold.
Alleged self-cooking kettle sold.
"Soup stone" sold.
Alleged soup-making pot sold.
Sale of pseudo-magic cake tree.
Pseudo-magic resuscitating object sold.
Seven devils' wives imitate ritual of death and resuscitation done over hero;
Alleged resuscitating bone sold.
Alleged resuscitating whistle sold.
Alleged resuscitating book sold.
Alleged resuscitating wand sold.
Alleged resuscitating fiddle sold.
Alleged resuscitating knife sold.
Alleged resuscitating horn sold.
Alleged resuscitating bugle sold.
Pseudo-magic oracular object sold.
Alleged oracular cow-hide sold.
Alleged oracular horse-hide sold.
Alleged oracular bird-skin sold.
Alleged oracular pill sold.
Virtue of oracular pill proved.
Sale of alleged oracular bamboo cup.
Pseudo-magic healing objects sold.
Alleged healing letter sold.
Alleged healing letter (charm) sold: to aid in childbirth.
Pseudo-magic letter is found to contain insulting remarks.
Pseudo-magic charm (letter): to ward off plague.
Pseudo-magic letter (charm): to aid in engendering offspring.
Alleged healing stone sold.
Pseudo-magic potion: to induce pregnancy.
Alleged rejuvenating object sold.
Betrayal through pretended fountain of youth.
Alleged rejuvenating stick sold.
Alleged inexhaustible vessel sold.
Alleged inexhaustible bottle sold.
Sale of tree with alleged magic fruit.
Sale of tree alleged to produce clothes.
Sale of other pseudo-magic objects.
Alleged automatic object sold.
Fishing-rod alleged to take fish to fisherman's home.
Sale of reputed self-operating sickle.
Pseudo-magic acorns: to protect holder's pigs.
Lime (ashes) sold as gold.
Sale of gilded mudcakes.
Sale of gilded (plated) ware as gold or silver.
Trickster, as watchman, exchanges worthless bag for bag of gold at night.
Animal sold as messenger.
Rabbit sold as letter-carrier.
Alleged speaking hare sold as messenger.
Bird sold as messenger.
Wolf sold as a goat (sheep).
Wild animal sold as watch-dog.
Wolf sold as watch-dog.
Bear sold as watch-dog.
Deceptive horse-sale.
Horse which will not go over trees.
The horse swifter than the rain.
Trickster grooms master's old mule and then sells him back without detection at huge profit.
Trickster in disguise regains possession of his own horse by trading with man whom he has duped once before.
Owner trades a blind horse.
Selling or trading a balky horse.
Person trades a dead horse.
Trickster temporarily lames valuable horse and buys him for trifle.
Pseudo-magic animals sold.
Pseudo-magic dog (goat) sold.
Dog (goat) alleged to swallow cold.
Dog alleged to chase hare and bring it to hunter's home.
Sale of dog supposed to excrete sweet dung: dupe deceived.
Sale of dead buffalo by making him seem alive.
Alleged speaking animal sold.
Two jars full of live black wasps sold as interpreters of foreign language.
Parrot knowing only two words sold as speaking foreign language.
Other worthless animals sold.
Animals made by magic exchanged for real ones.
Deceptive exchange: useless for magic object.
Sale of a sausage filled with blood.
Sale of worthless glass as diamond.
Sale of dung.
Pot of cow dung covered with cheese sold as cheese.
Exchange of alleged ghee (liquid butter) for goat (cow).
Pus from sore sold as ghee.
Earthen pot with rice water on top of which clarified butter had been poured sold as a pot of clarified butter.
Mud sold as fresh butter.
Worthless fruits (plants) sold.
Green plantains sold as matured plants.
Cheaters sell each other valueless articles.
Sale of worthless objects--miscellaneous.
Trick exchange: basket of stones for one of bread; a few pieces of money shown through slit in basket-cover to dupe.
A beggar tells the bishop how to stay warm.
Thief masked as devil bought off by frightened owner.
The backwards and forwards dance.
Trickster feigns ability to influence the sun; sells services.
Fraudulent permission sold.
Man collects toll fraudulently, stamps "Brass Gate" on receipts he gives.
Trickster persuades dupe to sacrifice animal and give it to him as payment for supposed services.
Deceptive partnership between man and ogre.
Deceptive division of profits.
Giant cheated in division of spoils of the chase.
Jackal cheats other animals of elephant they have killed together.
Deceptive crop division: above the ground, below the ground.
Deceptive grain division: the corn and the chaff.
Deceptive nut and olive division: inside and outside.
Deceptive sacrifice of nuts and dates.
Deceptive division of pigs: curly and straight tails.
Deceptive division of animals for shearing.
In dividing the fish, the dupe gets the bones.
Deceptive division of shared wife.
The common cow and bull: one gets front of cow and back of bull.
Deceptive division of sheep.
Barber's and jackal's common garden: jackal pretends that garden has not yielded any fruit at all.
Monkey cheats fox of his share of bananas.
Anger bargain.
Anger bargain: may God give you a penny.
Deceptive bargain: as much bread as he wants to eat.
Deceptive bargain: a sack of corn as reward.
Deceptive bargain: as much grain as will go in a rope.
Deceptive bargain: three wishes.
Deceptive bargain: first to say "Good morning." First to greet the other in morning will lose beauty
contest.
Deceptive bargain: fasting together.
Deceptive bargain: felling the tree.
Deceptive bargain: a peck of grain for each stack.
Deceptive bargain: an ox for five pennies.
Small niche in house brings large price.
Deceptive bargain: the ogre and the copper coins.
Deceptive land purchase.
Deceptive land purchase: ox-hide measure.
Deceptive land purchase: as much land as Vishnu can lie upon (or can step over in three steps).
Deceptive land purchase: boundary fixed by flight of a goose.
Deceptive land purchase: as much land as a shawl will cover.
Deceptive land purchase: as much land as can be covered by saint's hood.
Land grant: as much land as can be covered by saint's mantle.
Deceptive land purchase: bounds fixed by a race.
Deceptive land purchase: bounds fixed by throwing object (axe, spear).
Deceptive land purchase: as much land as can be surrounded in a certain time.
Land bargain: land surrounded by a horse (cow) in one day.
Land bargain: land ridden around during a sermon.
Deceptive land purchase: king, as reward for help in winning battle, promises wounded chieftain as much land as his chariot can
travel around; Land purchase: as much as can be plowed (fenced) in a
certain time.
Deceptive land purchase: fields that crackle when burnt are to be his.
Deceptive land purchase: as much land as can be shadowed by a tree.
Deceptive land purchase: enough to raise certain plant.
Deceptive land purchase: saint's enemy promised as much land as he can see from certain point.
Land grant: as much land as can be seen on a clear day.
Land grant: as much land as can be seen from certain eminence.
Deceptive land bargain: saints agree that the one who casts his staff far enough to reach distant island shall be owner of land.
Land grant: as far as ox can be heard.
Deceptive bargain with ogre: buying trees.
Strokes shared.
Stealing only a small amount.
Peace between sheep and wolves.
The man helps the horse against the stag.
Deceptive bargain based on an unusual name.
"Old Saddle" granted by the king.
Bargain: if the sun reverses its course.
A ribbon long enough to reach from ear to ear.
Selling by trickery: literal bargain.
Buying foxes "as they run".
The tall hog.
Trickster lends bamboo on condition that it is returned exactly as it is.
Until the log burns out: time given servant for Christmas holidays.
Cheater is forced to eat excrements.
Other deceptive bargains.
Deceptive bargain: as much gold in reward as sticks to poet's hair when poured over him: he smears it with tar.
Devil cheated by imposing an impossible task.
Devil is cheated by giving him task: counting the letters in the church Bible.
Devil cheated by being frightened.
Man whispers in devil's ear that his wife is approaching with her broom again.
Devil pounded in knapsack until he releases man.
Devil's magic power turned on himself.
Devil cheated by pretended hanging.
Devil to release man for performing seemingly impossible task.
The evil woman in the glass case as the last commodity.
Bringing the devil an unknown animal.
Guessing name of devil's secret plant.
Not to sleep for three successive nights.
Devil gets another soul instead of one bargained for.
Devil cheated by religious or magic means.
Devil cheated by having priest draw a sacred circle about the intended victim.
Devil cheated of his victim by boy having a bible under his arm.
Devil cheated when his victim becomes a priest.
Devil cheated of promised soul by intervention of Virgin Mary.
The picture of the Virgin Mary saves the priest.
Penance of priest saves him from devil.
Devil is unable to take man contracted to him when friends pray over the corpse.
Other ways of cheating the devil of his promised soul.
Devil cheated of his promised soul by making the intended victim drunk.
Devil cheated of his promised soul when the victim sells his to a comrade.
God cheats the devil of his promised soul.
Devil is to get soul of man whether he is buried "inside or outside of church, above or below ground."
Man cheats devil by giving him sole instead of soul.
Devil gets an animal in place of a human being.
Devil gets a flea instead of man's soul.
Payment to be made at harvest of first crop.
Payment to be made when last leaf falls.
The level bushel.
To owe sixteen florins.
The debt will be returned to the devil when the pigs walk instead of run home.
Debtor refuses to pay his debt.
Refusal to perform part in mutual agreement.
Mutual agreement to sacrifice family members in famine.
Mutual agreement to divide food.
The dog refuses to help the wolf.
Reward for accomplishment of task deceptively withheld.
Dancers given one coin instead of ten and have this taken away.
Refusal to make sacrifice after need is past.
Sailor offers saint a candle as large as a mast.
Golden lamb promised to goddess.
The sacrifice of the cock is at last carried out.
Horse withheld as sacrifice to a saint refuses to move.
Sick man offers deity 100 bulls for recovery.
Payment of money to the devil impossible, since debtor learns that the devil is dead.
Debt with worthless bond repudiated.
A man bonds his loyalty.
Hogs used as a mortgage collateral.
False offer to return goods in place of payment.
Milk bought on credit poured into one container.
Order to put a small vessel of milk into huge container.
Trickster gets strong drink by trickery in returning goods.
Trickster returns a bottle of water instead of the bottle of rum he has just purchased.
Trickster fills his gallon jug half full of water, then has it filled with rum at the store.
Debtor tells creditor that he has had his reward in the hope of payment.
Toad receives water from frog; refuses earth in return.
Servant refused payment because of single mistake.
Man refuses to pay murderer for killing and kills him.
Fish promised in return for bacon.
Debt to be paid "tomorrow".
"Come tomorrow".
Agreement to leave sum of money on coffin of friend.
To pay beggar for standing in tank all night.
Trickster cheats by pretending deafness.
Refusal to return borrowed goods.
By using verse with double meaning man appropriates borrowed goods.
One day and one night: object borrowed for a day and a night retained.
Fairy (god?) loses stronghold by consenting to lend it for "a day and a night."
Trickster escapes without paying.
Bird has new clothes made: flies away without paying.
Drinkers argue about who is to pay.
Boots made by two cobblers.
Man orders a bottle of beer, then returns it and takes a loaf of bread instead.
Jackal refuses payment for being carried.
Healer to take payment in satisfaction at patient's recovery.
Goods received on partial payment.
Woman promises marriage for pair of earrings: she escapes with them.
Trickster summons all creditors at once, precipitates fight, and escapes payment.
King promises valuable dog to each of two powerful and mutually hostile tribes.
Creditor killed or driven away.
Fox is promised chickens: is driven off by dogs.
Husband promises a cow to tiger; wife frightens the tiger away.
Thor is to give his hammer in return for Freyja as wife.
Man cheats devil of reward: to have man if he gets him at first grasp.
Conquered warrior kills victor instead of paying.
Literal payment of debt (not real).
Fifty ships promised.
Drinking only after a bargain.
Tribute paid in enchanted snow.
Saint ransoms prince for much gold and silver.
Literal fulfillment of marriage contract.
Trickster disguises himself and escapes notice of creditors.
Deceptive respite in payment obtained.
Creditor to wait till debtor is shaved.
Man who owes 1000 ducats has his creditor arrested for owing him ten.
Refusal to tell about the Rhine treasure, though condition demanded is fulfilled when the only one who knows where it is is killed.
The castration bargain: wife sent.
Creditor falsely reported insane when he demands money.
King promises beggars new clothes: burns their old and gets much gold and silver.
Death feigned to avoid paying debts.
Customer takes invitation to buy as invitation to receive the goods free.
Payment evaded by setting countertasks.
Deceptions in payment of debt--miscellaneous.
Devil loses his grain and gets thistles.
Payment of the egg-white.
Pseudo-magic money-dropping ass beaten to death by buyer; cheat says: "Return my ass, I shall return your money."
Payment in worthless goods which are alleged to be valuable goods transformed.
Deceptive damage claims.
The eaten grain and the cock as damages.
Trickster demands return of food guest has just eaten: gets damages.
Damages claimed for loss of a charm.
Damages for supposedly lost horse.
Damages for accidentally broken water pot: to pay for elephant.
Payment to lame man who claims that man's father lamed him.
Selling oneself and escaping.
Deceptive sale of another as slave.
Profitable league made with both parties to a quarrel.
Goods misappropriated.
Dog as wolf's shoemaker eats up the materials.
Trickster eats sacrifice offerings.
Exorbitant price demanded and received.
Charging thirty cakes for cooking twenty-five.
Crab demands seven patas as payment for four patas of paddy frog has borrowed.
Crow demands young swan in payment for helping swan find feed for its young.
Camel has offered one pound of flesh to jackal for help.
Deceptive wages.
Deceptive wages: as much rice as will go on a leaf.
Deceptive wages: two grains and land to plant them on.
Stolen property sold to its owner.
Trickster steals farmer's cow and then sells her to the farmer.
Merchant buys the same article several times from the same or different seller.
The price of a lump of gold.
The price of mink skins.
The priest made sick of his bargain: three words at the grave.
Devil is made sick of his bargain.
Agreement not to scratch.
Deceptive wager.
Deceptive wager: whose horse will jump highest.
Deceptive wager: cat to carry lantern into room.
The fee used up before the main question is reached.
New bags for old! Recovery of the old bag (containing money or having magic power) which the stupid wife has given away.
Counting out pay.
Dupe denied food until hands are clean.
Trickster sells what is not his to sell.
Man contracts for load of hay on the road (without making any payment), orders the seller to deliver it at a certain inn.
Trickster persuades girl to reveal hidden gold by promising to make it into ornaments.
To keep first thing touched.
Reduced prices but false weights.
Watered milk sold.
Stolen cows cause a war.
Master thief.
Youth learns robbery as a trade: boasts of it.
Family of thieves.
Female master thief.
Courtesan runs away with men's goods.
Nations of thieves.
Contest in stealing.
Thieving contest: first steals eggs from under bird; second meantime steals first's breeches.
Friends enter into stealing contest.
Youths execute a series of clever thefts.
Thieves steal from each other.
The stolen and restolen ham.
Highjacking.
Man is robbed of gold chain while with prostitute.
Blind man steals from neighbor who in turn steals from him.
Thieves betray each other.
One thief hides in money bag; other carries it off.
One thief entrusted with other thieves' money cheats them.
Youngest brother surpasses elder as thief.
Thief in disguise.
Thief dressed half white, half black.
Thief disguised as corpse.
Sham dead man brought in sack by confederate.
Thief disguised as angel.
Thief disguises voice and is allowed access to goods (children).
Thief becomes monk in order to rob monastery.
Thief disguised as yogi.
Thief disguised as demon.
Thief takes form of animal.
Robber disguised as bear is killed.
Man allows himself to be carried off by monkeys, who mistake him for cow: steals their magic cups.
Thief disguised as parrot.
Magician transforms self into crocodile to steal.
Thief disguised as pig.
Thieves disguised as interior decorators.
Theft by disguise as son of owner.
Thief disguised as owner's wife.
Thief in disguise as long lost son-in-law.
Thief pretends to be girl's bridegroom and calls for her.
Thief in clothes of owner.
Theft by disguise as owner's grandmother.
Thieves disguised as fine gentlemen steal provost's purse.
Theft by disguising as palace official.
Thieves disguised as musicians.
Thief disguised as menial.
Thief disguised as owner's cook.
Theft by disguise as woman servant.
Theft by disguise as barber.
Theft by disguise as merchant (or peddler).
Thief in disguise as god.
Thief disguised as girl.
Thief disguised as old woman.
Thief in the clothes of robbed bride kills bridegroom.
Thief disguised as beggar.
Thieves hidden in oil casks.
Thief hidden in cage that is carried into house.
Entry by master thief into closely guarded city in wood-gatherer's basket.
Trickster feigns being pursued by drunken husband to obtain entrance.
Thief enters treasury through secret passage.
Underground passage gives entrance to closed chamber.
Thief enters treasury through passage made by him as architect of the building.
Thief bores hole in house wall, then introduces blackened pot as a feeler.
Thieves enter palace through hole in wall and abduct new bride.
Theft through chimney.
Theft from giant by fishing through chimney.
Thief copies key by making wax impression.
Thief enters by burning off locks.
Entrance into wine cellar by removing lock during absence of mother.
Watchdog enticed away.
Thief learns location of dupe's food supply by strewing ashes.
Girl made to carry shell from which ashes fall: she is thus followed.
Theft of gold hoard by spying on secret hiding place.
Thief pretends to return grass that has stuck to his clothes to ground where it belongs.
Theft by use of coat of invisibility.
Thief feigns illness to be taken in victim's house.
Man gulled into giving up his clothes.
Goods stolen while owner sleeps.
Sleeping with open eyes.
Owner put to sleep and goods stolen.
Master thief puts watchers to sleep and cuts off their hair.
Theft after putting owner to sleep by lousing her.
Master thief puts guards to sleep and steals meat.
Guards fatigued by trickster so that they sleep while goods are stolen.
Worthless object (animal) substituted for valuable while owner sleeps.
Mouse's tail in mouth of sleeping owner causes him to cough up magic object.
Trickster steals magic doll while owner is asleep.
The foolishly concealed money: A man hangs a bag of money in the top of a high tree.
Thief lies down in the space between the king's and the queen's bed and steals jewelry from both.
Theft by making owner drunk.
Theft by giving narcotic to guardian of goods.
Theft from blind person.
Blind Dupe.
Theft from three old women who have but a single eye among them.
Buzzard steals coyote's eyes, while he is throwing them up in the air.
Blind beggar overheard telling that his money is kept in a stick.
Theft by blinding with pepper.
Owner gives up goods through flattery.
The raven with cheese in his mouth.
Goat induces the camel to talk and meanwhile eats all the food.
Thief frightens owner from goods.
Owner frightened from goods by report of approaching enemy.
Owners frightened away from goods by report of deadly epidemic.
Thieves steal pig and make it impersonate person with plague.
Trickster quarrels with owner of goods, feigns death, and frightens owner away.
Owner frightened away from goods by a bluff.
Dupe, made to believe that trickster becomes a wolf when he yawns three times, flees and leaves his clothes behind him.
Porcupine, made to believe that rabbit's ears are horns, flees and leaves food behind.
Owner frightened from goods by apparitions of the dead.
Thief places candles on crabs (bugs).
Thief frightens priest as the latter crosses cemetery.
Owner frightened from goods by trickster's ferocious animal.
Thief frightens away guards of his father's corpse by impersonating demons.
Town crier is frightened by the voice of a cleric robbing a grave.
Delivery boy is frightened into giving up his chickens.
Trickster lights torches and bluffs old woman into giving him money.
Servants frightened by ferocious actions of robbers; Owner frightened away by thief disguised as devil.
Owner frightened from goods by trickster's summons of wild buffalo herd.
Robbers frightened from goods.
Frightened robber leaves his coat behind.
Object falls on robbers from tree.
Man hidden in tree so frightened of lioness he drops his sword and kills her.
Door falls on robbers from tree.
Cow-hide falls on robbers from tree.
Person falls from tree on robbers.
Robbers frightened from goods by the dead.
Corpse thrown among robbers frightens them from treasure.
Robbers frightened from goods by sham-dead man.
Robbers frightened from goods by man's outcry.
Animals climb on one another's backs and cry out; frighten robbers.
Animals cry out; frighten robbers.
Robber frightened from his goods by playing of bagpipe.
Robbers frightened from goods by hidden man.
Thieves steal chest containing hidden paramour.
Robbers frightened from goods by Thumbling.
The thief in the beehive.
Guardian beast overcome by hero's mirrors.
Robbers frightened from goods by man in tar and feathers.
Robbers coming to steal from stable frightened away by bear staying the night there with his keeper.
Robbers frightened by pretended cannibalism.
Sons of thief frightened by threatening to bring the three strongest men to punish them.
Thieves frightened by ghosts who tie fruits to their hair, which they think are missiles thrown at them.
House filled with smoke so that owner gives trickster lodging.
Fire set to village so that robbers can steal goods.
Trickster fills house with smoke so that partner cannot see to eat.
Oversalting food of giant so that he must go outside for water.
Thief sends owner for water in leaky basket.
Thief ties owner's hair while he escapes with goods.
Owner's interest distracted while goods are stolen.
Trickster reports lost money; searchers leave him in possession of premises.
Thief shams death and steals.
Animal feigns death repeatedly and then entices owner from goods.
Thief shams sickness and steals.
Man feigns sickness in order to go back to steal hidden gold.
Thief distracts attention by apparently hanging (stabbing) himself.
Thief persuades owner of goods to dive for treasure.
Owner persuaded to climb tree while goods are stolen.
Owner of horse climbs tree after thief, who drops down and rides off on owner's horse.
Owner enticed to chase game while goods are stolen.
Theft of horses (cattle) by letting loose a rabbit so that drivers join in the chase.
Partridge pretending to be wounded entices woman from food while jackal eats it.
Shoes dropped to distract owner's attention.
Animal's cry imitated to distract owner's attention from his goods.
Baby's cry imitated to distract owner's attention from his goods.
Cattle let loose so as to distract owner's attention from his goods.
Cat made to mew so as to distract owner's attention from his goods.
Golden deer sent to entice girl's guardians away, so she can be abducted.
Thief pretends to show how horse can be stolen; rides it off.
Trickster pretends to ride home for tools to perform tricks.
Thief pretends to horse dealer that he wishes to buy a horse.
Thief shows knife-maker use of purse-cutting knife: cuts his purse and robs him.
King loses signet ring while endeavoring to learn from a thief the art of stealing.
Thief tells his pursuer that the thief has gone to heaven by way of a tree.
Thief persuades owner to take his place so he can go and catch thief: really steals owner's horse.
Trickster bribes guards to start a fight.
Owner's attention distracted by man fishing in street.
Guard (owner) sent to see a cat which fishes for her master.
Trickster falsely announces marriage celebration and distracts owner's attention.
Tailor throws piece of cloth out of the window.
Master thief pretends to throw needle and thread in anger at his son.
Thief steals belongings of his wife's paramour while the latter is calling on her.
One thief distracts attention of owner while other steals.
Thief steals pastries while confederate makes a purchase.
Stone thrown to attract attention of shark guardians.
Trickster entices children to dance and steals their food.
Thieves ask nurse maid to dance while they steal prince.
Helpful animal amuses princess with tricks and secures key to treasury.
Trickster poses as entertainer: steals meat while host assembles friends.
The story about theft.
The dance of the thief.
The supposed magic spell.
Fire set in order to distract attention.
Man stands on pillory to attract attention.
Fox drops goldsmith's child to get him away from gold bench he is working on and thus steal gold.
Partridge plays hide-and-seek with girls while fox eats the curds they are taking to market.
Trickster starts argument and steals from arguers.
Miser enticed from his money by report of "money tree".
Man lures fox-husband of girl away by means of cock-decoy and runs away with the girl.
Thief as umpire in contest.
Thief advises owner to go away; meantime steals the goods.
Innkeeper deceived into going under the floor of the granary; meantime robbed.
Owner sent on errand and goods stolen.
Bread dropped in mud; messenger returns for more.
Theft by reporting relative's sickness.
Thief advises that slaughtered meat be hung up over night.
The stingy parson and the slaughtered pig.
Thief advises that new cloth be hung in the open overnight.
Companion sent away so that rascal may steal common food supply.
Monkeys lure tortoise into a tree and carry away his load of salt.
Cheat induces dupe to go get food reported found and steals clothes as soon as they are left behind.
Owner persuaded that his goods are spoiled.
Trickster gives a woman a knife to cut him a slice of white bread.
The polluted fish.
The "spoiled" anchovies.
Trickster cuts up partridges with his knife.
Trickster puts filth in food.
Spoiling the rice-field with dung.
Son-in-law steals father-in-law's pants by making latter believe he has dirtied them.
Sympathetic helper robbed.
Sympathetic helper sent for remedy and robbed.
Thief sent into well by trickster.
Dupe left to care for child while his goods are stolen.
Antelope sends leopard for fire, eats game while leopard is gone.
Thief trusted to guard goods.
Thief guards his pursuer's horse while the latter follows a false trail.
King persuaded to change clothes with thief disguised as old woman.
Herdsman slaughters animals entrusted to him.
Woman persuaded to go after her forgotten comb.
Thief trusted to guard shawls during prayers.
Cloak as surety that owner will return.
Thief takes mistress's ornaments across river on pretense of keeping them safe, and then deserts her.
Cozening.
Prostitute claims to be intended victim's daughter.
Trickster causes owner and another to fight over goods.
Trickster permitted to try on clothes.
Trickster persuades tailor to leave his goods.
Thief borrows cloak so to carry food.
Trickster permitted to try on ornaments.
Theft by posing as doctor.
Theft by posing as magician.
Trickster asks hospitality: expels owner and appropriates house.
Crow asks hospitality of sparrow and gradually takes possession of nest and kills young.
Trickster pollutes house so that he is left in possession.
Trickster pretends to have spit in wine accidentally.
Tricksters feign death of their father.
Pickpockets strike man on leg so that he takes his hand off his purse.
Signal for theft given in foreign language.
Means of hoodwinking guardian or owner--miscellaneous.
Theft by means of magic invisibility.
Thief beguiles guardian of goods by assuming equivocal name.
Thief of sweetmeats says his name is Fly.
Trickster dupes woman into putting him into basket.
Crow makes friends with pigeon so as to be able to steal food in household to which he belongs.
Objects stolen by means of magic impersonation.
Theft by disobeying orders: misappropriation.
Jackal ordered to take meat to lion's family takes it to his own.
Man calling self "her husband" abducts child.
Tricksters eat up food given them for bear.
Man eats up food given him by tiger as bait for deer.
Monk entrusted with care of getting husband for girl, takes dowry himself.
Uncle entrusted with niece's patrimony slanders her so marriage will be broken off and he will not have to part with her money.
Covetous husband desiring wife's jewels tells her he has vowed to offer them to deity.
Theft by presenting false order to guardian.
Unique weapon got by misrepresenting to guardian use to which it is to be put.
For the long winter.
Ring to put on corpse's finger.
The cup to be repaired.
Stealing the platter for the intended gift.
Theft by posing as master of the house and learning where goods are hidden.
Hare in lion's skin gets meat from lioness.
Fox drinks the milk of a tiger's mate by giving her a misleading message.
Deposit money secured by false order to banker's wife.
Theft by forgery: signature forged to obtain money.
Clerk mistranslates order given by master to maid, so that pie goes to clerks.
The hood for the robe.
Give him what he wants.
Hero reports to king that his ancestors (in heaven) want him rewarded with gold.
Partner misappropriates common goods.
Theft by confederate.
Confederate allows self to be sold as slave.
The thieving guests.
Theft by wife's paramour.
Theft by trickster's trained animal.
Thief feeds stolen money in flour to animal, then asks for ass.
Thieving cow.
Cow makes a hundred-fold return.
Cow enticed away by calf.
Self-returning cow.
Animal shams death and is sold.
Cows turned into rice field.
Thieving bird.
Thieving ant.
Thieving dog.
Speaking goat swallows gold coins in temple and voids for master.
Thieving turtle.
Thieving butterflies.
Thieving octopus.
Trickster hides in food and eats it.
Trickster throws fish off the wagon.
Playing godfather.
Trickster eats food left by tiger (his trapping partner) at snare.
"Owner has refused to accept it." Trickster pretends to teach dance: flees with valuables.
Thieves steal chickens and have mock funeral to cover theft.
The thieving kiss.
Fire stolen by swallowing it and then escaping.
Host robs guest.
Blame for theft fastened on dupe.
Thief accuses his companion of having stolen the gold they have both stolen.
Dupe's food eaten and then blame fastened on him.
Trail of stolen goods made to lead to dupe.
Stolen goods taken to dupe's house so that he is accused.
Crow causes serpent to try to swallow a stolen collar and thus be accused of the theft.
Necklace dropped by crow into snake's hole leads men to kill snake which had eaten the crow's fledglings.
Surreptitious transfer of stolen object to innocent person's possession brings condemnation.
Stolen goods left in suitor's room.
Thief makes believe that he has been robbed of money entrusted to him.
Thief successfully accuses owner of having stolen property he covets.
The lamb without a heart.
The goose without a leg.
The bird without a tail.
The ass without a heart.
Thief claims to have been transformed into an ass.
Thief escapes by leaving animal's severed tail and claiming that the animal has escaped and left his tail.
Tails in ground.
Ox's tail in another's mouth.
Stolen sheep's tails severed and put in tree.
Thief successfully claims that stolen goods are his own.
Grain-thief's wagon falls into ditch: duped owner helps him.
The stolen pot pawned with the real owner.
Thief successfully claims that stolen image has been given him by the saint himself.
Stolen animal disguised as person so that thief may escape detection.
Stolen sheep dressed as person sitting at helm of boat.
Stolen sheep dressed as baby in cradle, so that thief may escape detection.
Stolen animal magically transformed so that thief may escape detection.
Severed limb prevents detection.
Thief has his companion cut off his head so that he may escape detection.
Companion's arm allowed to be cut off so as to prevent detection.
Thief's confederate cuts off own arm to furnish alibi for family's grief.
Elephant cuts piece from own leg and puts it on shelf, lest he be accused of stealing meat.
The stolen cow successively pawned.
Thief presents alibi.
Thief shams illness as alibi.
Detection of theft of bull escaped by putting boots on bull.
Thieves stretch chain across road and evade pursuers.
Quartered thief's body sewed together to escape detection.
Marked culprit marks everyone else and escapes detection.
Many persons admit theft so that it is impossible to find real thief.
Repentant thief pretends to have found stolen cow.
Thief pretends to have recovered stolen horse.
Thief swallows stolen goods to escape detection.
Flower thief eats flowers to escape detection.
The owner is duped by thief who gives him the task of solving a riddle about the theft just accomplished.
Thief escapes detection--miscellaneous.
Thief cannot remember whom he delivered the goods to.
Thief avoids detection by disguising as a woman.
Umpire awards his own stolen coat to thief.
Stolen bacon offered to the owner.
Thief paints horse black on one side and leaves other side white.
Husks replaced in granary so theft of grain is unnoticed.
Goldsmith as thief in king's treasury.
Thieves escape detection by carrying woman on bier and drowning her outcries with wailing.
Blame for theft fastened on inanimate objects.
Blame for theft fastened on fairies.
Robber mistakenly carries off worthless goods and leaves valuable.
Thief hoping to gain bigger booty, loses smaller.
Thieves directed to a hornet's nest as supposed money hiding place.
Two cheats exchange articles as genuine and both find themselves cheated.
Thief rendered helpless by magic.
Stolen object magically returns to owner.
Stolen animal returns to owner.
Thief condemned when witnesses of theft are able to find the stolen goods.
King's daughter put into brothel to catch thief.
Apparently dead woman revives when thief tries to steal from her grave.
Clever animal betrays thief.
Clever animal betrays thief.
Magic statue betrays a thief by indirection.
Mouse's tail in mouth of sleeping thief causes him to cough up swallowed magic ring.
Person being robbed deceives robbers and calls help.
Clever woman being robbed makes excuse for screaming and summoning help.
Clever husband being robbed induces wife to make outcry and summon help.
Owner pretends to help burglars to divide booty: handles weights so loudly that police are summoned.
Child's curiosity exposes thief.
Clever girl discovers robber and cheats him.
The girl seizes the robber concealed under the bed by the beard and says: "What a coarse bundle of flax.
Disguised robber in night-lodging tries to pull up confederate on rope: princess discovers him and catches him.
Girl tells the thief money is in chest.
Child's song incriminates thief.
Husband makes rhymes about cakes wife has stolen.
Blind thief trying to steal dates from withered tree killed by slipping of rope.
Robber overcome.
Robber cheated by substitution.
Robber with hand of glory killed.
Sausage as revolver.
Conqueror of robber discovers his money-stick.
Robbers enslaved.
Thief loses his goods or is detected--miscellaneous.
Betrayal through exchange of stolen goods.
Thief claims that stolen goods are his own: detected by master.
Thief tricked into robbing himself.
Thief leaves food untouched when owner pretends to be poisoned by it.
Sheep thief pretends to buy wethers from the ram, names the price himself.
Robbers fed poisoned food.
Robber induced to give respite and come to man's office to get promised larger sum.
Tortoise asks greedy man to give him first ruby it has given him to be sure second one will be perfect match: disappears into water
with it.
Owner pretends to think thief is family god and binds him.
Owner feigns madness and thus raises alarm: thieves captured.
Hidden person sees robbers concealing treasure and takes it.
Thief hides in large bottle to get into room: bottle put into water to boil.
Double reward successfully claimed.
The double pension.
The doubly-feed lawyer.
Dishonest notary invents debt and collects from both parties.
Fee from two persons for the same monopoly.
Trickster collects from both husband and wife.
False claim of reward.
Reward offered for stolen object (princess).
Money (or other things) acquired by blackmail.
Hidden paramour buys freedom from discoverer.
Clever wife gets money from those who attempt to seduce her.
Clever wife gets husband appointed to position occupied by man who attempts to seduce her.
Money exacted from watchers who permit goods to be stolen.
Money exacted from watchers who permit chest to be stolen.
Money exacted from watcher who permits theft of wooden cow supposed to be real.
Trickster entices wolves out of a stable by music: exacts money from their watcher for his carelessness.
Trickster exacts promise of marriage as price of silence after having seen a princess naked.
Trickster exacts beautiful wife from curious people.
Trickster exacts money as price of silence after lying with princess (queen).
Fox eats his fellow-lodger: accuses another and demands damages.
Priest induced to betray secrets of confessional: money then exacted from him for silence.
Women lead man into intrigue and then shout for help.
Rascal extorts money for silence about companion's poverty.
Usurer blackmailed.
Princess has brought ill luck to bridegroom.
Rascal extorts money for silence about breach of food tabu.
Dream bread: the most wonderful dream.
Egg as reward of appropriate saying.
Bag of cakes said to be full of cobras.
The bag with the rice for the road.
The emperor's new clothes.
God to reveal self to those of legitimate birth.
Whoever hears singing snake must die.
The heller thrown into others' money.
Half a grain.
Contraband gold discovered when king offers large price for gold.
Cheater marks coveted object with his name and later claims it.
Unjust umpire as trickster's confederate.
Unjust umpire decides a religious dispute.
The wager that sheep are hogs.
Concealed confederate as unjust witness.
Trickster's confederate gives fabulous appraisal to worthless piece of glass.
Confederate answers for corpse.
Unjust umpire misappropriates disputed goods.
Dividing the discovered oyster.
Unjust umpire keeps the stakes when contest cannot be decided.
Cheating through knowledge of the law.
Deception into giving false credit.
Supper won by trick: the mutual friend.
Supper won by disguising as an invited guest.
Old beggar disguised as gentleman: much money borrowed on his credit.
The other man to pay the bill.
Trickster buys chickens telling owner that priest will pay.
The priest as surety.
Complaint about the empty bottle.
Greatest liar to get his supper free.
Credit based on forgery.
Forged letter used to obtain credit, consideration, and entertainment.
Forged testament used to dupe host.
Worthless chests offered to obtain credit.
Unjust banker deceived into delivering deposits by making him expect even larger.
Trickster receives huge sum on trifling credit by chain of borrowings.
Trickster takes goods given in charity to his family.
The bear helps the fox's mother get berries: the fox eats them.
Monkey causes girl to cry as if from hunger: eats food given her.
Eavesdropping sexton duped into giving suppliant money.
Owner bids on his own goods at auction.
The substituted porridge.
Sham blood and brains.
Trickster cheats rescuers into digging his well.
Cheating through equivocation.
The stolen meat handed about.
"Have we leave to go?" Why go all the way to fair?
Cheating by substitution of worthless articles.
Entrails substituted for meat.
Rock substituted for ham by trickster.
Tortoise cheats leopard by substituting bundle of resin for bundle of meat.
False articles used to produce credit.
Nugget of supposed gold (lead) given to help build church: money then borrowed.
Reward for the bag of lead.
Water sold as wine.
Innkeeper serves sweetened water for wine, cat for rabbit, mule for beef.
False set of rings to offset genuine.
Priests substitute gilded images of calves for those of solid gold.
While swimming with the lizard, toad exchanges own ugly daughter for lizard's pretty one.
Lean geese substituted for fat by trickster.
Woman gives friend dried comb while she herself eats the honey.
Cheating by substitution of common cow for magic one.
Attention secured by trickery.
Audience secured with the pope by rudeness.
Deception into listening to speaker.
Entry into enemy's presence by pretending to be a messenger from a relative.
Butter weighed with the bread.
Demi-coq by means of his magic animals and magic water collects money.
Blackbird to avenge capture of his wife carries rope, club, cat, ants and river in ears.
Money received to bury sham-dead person.
Husband and wife each receive money (from different persons) to bury the other, who is supposed to be dead.
Trickster reports treasure's owner dead: receives it from children.
Color of devil's cows changed while he sleeps so that he does not know them.
Cheating by raising an alarm.
Trickster gets money from a bank by raising an alarm and demanding "what is owing to him."
Host with overstock of sour wine spreads rumor of dragon at his house.
False alarm of robbery causes cheated man to be imprisoned.
The devil gets into the ark.
The double-cheating miller.
Counselor accuses conspirators in order to confiscate their estates.
Lawyer's dog steals meat.
Trickster paid to educate an ass.
Trickster paid to teach monkey to talk.
Horse to be taught to speak.
Girl serves her father with piece of her own flesh in place of chicken.
Woman serves beggar with coals instead of food.
Dupe betrayed by asking him ambiguous questions.
Wolf announces dawn prematurely to collect debt.
Trickster shams sickness so that partner does all the work.
Foxes persuade man to plant cooked plants.
Persons deceived into eating meat in Lent, the meat being disguised as butter.
Additional cheats.
Trickster sells mother's wine to merchant without asking her permission.
Object with a hollow as instrument of cheats.
Saint who desires broth containing no butter receives broth into which butter has been poured surreptitiously through hollow mixing-stick.
Saint who desires pottage of nettles containing no milk receives pottage into which milk has been poured surreptitiously through pipe.
Old man cheats crocodile by playing on its ignorance of agriculture.
Trickster breaks cat of taste for milk by overheating its milk.
Embarrassing gift.
God cheats birds by giving false description of tamarind fruit.
Gullible king gives large sums to minister for construction of imaginary weapon and then more to have it destroyed.
Trickster dupes rival by exchanging beds: receives his food.
Treacherous friend drinks out of other's flask to save the water in his own.
Fox pretends to go to work, but goes out to sleep.
Uriah letter changed.
Death evaded by persuading executioner that another victim was ordered.
Ogam inscription on shield orders that bearer (who does not know meaning) shall be killed.
Compassionate executioner.
Compassionate executioners.
"Prince will soon want me back." Compassionate executioner: bloody coat.
Compassionate executioner: bloody knife (sword) from slain animal substitute.
Compassionate executioner: substituted heart.
Compassionate executioner: substituted brains (other animal for helpful animal).
Eyes of animal substituted as proof for eyes of children.
Eyes, ears, fingers of corpse substituted for those demanded of victim.
Animal substituted for child served at meal.
Compassionate executioner: substituted child.
Executioner makes substitution when victim escapes.
Compassionate executioner: substituted puppet drowned.
Compassionate executioner: substituted head (made of clay) as proof of execution.
Compassionate executioner: mutilation substituted for death.
Boy's sixth toe cut off by compassionate executioner as proof he had been killed.
Compassionate executioner: feigns to torture victim.
Compassionate executioner: sleeping potion supplied instead of poison.
Bribed executioner releases culprit.
Disguise as girl to avoid execution.
Girl substituted for boy to avoid slaughter by father.
Escape by hiding.
Children hidden to avoid their execution (death).
Girl escapes by hiding in huge harp.
Sleeping persons covered with oxhide and so saved.
Escape by hiding in kettle.
Escape by hiding in rice-bin.
Escape by hiding in the earth.
Escape by disguise.
Escape by dressing in animal (bird, human) skin.
Man sewed in animal's hide carried off by birds.
Escape by dressing in bear's skin.
Escape in monkey-skin.
Escape by putting on old woman's skin.
Change of bodily appearance so as to escape.
Disguise by shaving off beard so as to escape.
Disguise by mutilation so as to escape.
Disguise as king with mask in order to hide from enemy who has ruined warrior's face and torn his beard off.
Disguise as farmer so as to escape.
Disguise as carpenter so as to escape.
Disguise by painting (covering with soot, etc.) so as to escape.
Covering self with clay so as to escape.
Clothes changed so as to escape.
Disguise in clothes of other sex so as to escape.
Girl escapes in male disguise.
Man in danger of life dressed by hostess as woman and set to baking.
Man in danger of life dressed by hostess as woman and set to grinding corn.
Man in danger of life takes his wife's place in the bed with her night-cap on.
Disguise as musician in order to escape.
Musician in danger puts on his musician's attire as if about to play; escapes.
Escape in humble disguise.
Escape by disguising as a washerman.
Disguise as waiter in inn to escape.
Adulteress escapes prison disguised as an old woman.
Escape by making sheaths of bark for fingers: hero leaves without awakening nymph wives who make him sleep with fingers in mouth.
Escape in huge pumpkin shell.
Girl hidden in huge harp.
Abbot escapes from his paramour's husband in disguise of priest.
One animal escapes by shamming as another (jackal as goat).
Goat escapes from jackal by being covered with flowers.
Women escape from enemy's camp disguised as ascetics.
Hare escapes lion by being bundled in brushwood.
Hare and bride travel in pot to escape tiger, answer "Ruined pot" when challenged.
Escape by shamming death.
Death feigned to escape unwelcome marriage.
Escape by shamming death: blood and brains.
Woman covers fleeing man with placenta of goat and with blood to convince pursuers she has just given birth and thus prevents their
capturing him.
Ogre carries sham-dead man.
Death feigned to escape from husband's death plot.
Captive parrots in net play dead and are thrown out: escape.
Trout pretends to be dead.
Escape by shammed burial.
Escape by shammed drowning; Sham murder:
Escape by shammed hanging.
Escape by shamming illness.
Illness (madness, dumbness, etc.) feigned to escape unwelcome marriage.
Illness feigned to escape rendezvous with undesired mistress.
Illness feigned to escape unwelcome meeting.
Escape by shamming madness.
Escape by shamming leprosy.
Escape by use of substituted object.
Substituted object left in bed while intended victim escapes.
Woman puts figures of paramour and herself in bed.
Bride substitutes wooden picture while she herself escapes sleeping groom.
In order to save child from death, maid substitutes block dressed to resemble it.
Man steps aside so that only his shadow is caught.
Object substituted for murdered person so as to allay suspicion.
Animal jumps out of skin so that only skin is caught.
Man leaves mantle so that only mantle is hit.
Escape, leaving dog as substitute.
Dog buried instead of foster son, who is falsely reported killed so that he can safely be taken away.
Girl escapes from ogress by substituting pig.
Destructive magic object tried out on something inanimate.
Destructive magic belt tried on tree.
Cock's blood given spirits instead of human blood.
Escape by leaving behind false images made of spittle.
Captor's bag filled with animals or objects while captives escape.
Escape by substituting another person in place of the intended victim.
Poisoned food (drink) fed to animal instead of to intended victim.
Escape by substituting brother for intended victim, namely self.
Exchange of clothes between master and his servant.
Two rival parties of fifteen each on ship.
Man calls animal by his son's name so he can sacrifice it instead of his son.
Substitute in ordeal.
Substitute smoker.
Escape by substituting self for another condemned to die.
Two wicked men put to a fiery test ask for a third (pious) man to be tested together with them.
Escape from battle by magic invisibility.
Escape under mantle of invisibility.
Escape in mist of invisibility.
Thief makes magic storm in order to escape.
Escape by successive disguises.
Fugitive disguises successively in different forms and deceives pursuer into self-injury.
Escape by reversing shoes (boat).
Escape by reversing horse's (ox's) shoes.
Escape by reversing snowshoes.
Hero walks backward to leave misleading trail.
Escape by rowing boat stern foremost.
Captors deceived into believing captive is planning to stay with them: vigilance relaxed.
Girl escapes by making man captor think preparation is being made for wedding.
Princess cuts hair to escape captor who holds her hair in hand while sleeping with her.
Escape by reporting oneself invulnerable and overawing captor.
Escape by falsely reporting one's ability to escape.
Biting the foot.
Fox to crocodile who has caught him by the tongue: "Those are the dirty clothes I've been washing!" She lets go.
Escape by alleged possession of external soul.
Escape by falsely reporting approach of rescuers.
Pope escapes captivity and death by dressing in full regalia and overawing captor.
Escape by frightening would-be captors.
"Get into my belly." Man takes off wig, takes out false teeth, takes off wooden
leg, overawes Indians.
Man hides in hollow log, fires rifle while Indians are sitting on the log, scares them away.
Jackal escapes by telling farmer he is jackal king and will call upon his subjects.
Ferocious animal (ogre) misunderstands victim's remark: flees in fright.
Ogre frightened away by beating tom-tom.
Goat trembles so hard from fear of tiger that shaking of his beard frightens tiger away.
Shepherd threatened by tiger says he will report matter to ass: tiger flees.
Threatening tiger challenged to strength contest.
Queen hiding king disguised as child tells ogress she has borne child with moustache: ogress frightened.
Hero threatens tiger with plowshare and leads him into village.
Escape by frightening tiger into thinking goat in cave is the ghost of his father.
Witch frightened by seeing victim cleave boulder with one blow of sword.
Trickster claims to be holding up sky.
Escape by making attacker believe there are many defenders.
Woman alone in house rolls cheeses down the stairs after calling names of men in the house.
Man convinces robbers that house is fully occupied by beating drums all over the house; they flee.
Sham calling to helpers frightens robbers away.
Escape by equivocal oath.
Respite from death granted until particular act is performed.
Respite from death granted until prayer is finished.
Cat fails to be beguiled into releasing mouse.
Respite from death granted until confession is made.
Respite from death until mass is said.
Respite from death until prisoner has finished drinking his glass.
Iguana persuades jackal to let him go so he can finish his drink.
Respite from death until victim has blown on a horn (three times).
Respite from death while one plays the fiddle.
Respite from death while captive plays music (whistles).
Respite from death while one sings song.
Three cries allowed maiden about to be murdered.
Wild boar given permission to squeal before wolf eats him.
Respite from death while one plays the bagpipe.
Respite from death while victim dances.
Girl to dance for robbers asks to bring her party (strong men in disguise) who overcome robbers.
Mare is allowed to dance before being killed; Men ordered to dance before being killed.
Titmouse receives permission to sit on branch and sing before being sacrificed.
Respite from death until toilet is made permits escape.
Respite from death until clothes are changed.
Devil must wait for man to tie his stocking before the man comes into his possession.
Making modesty pay.
Respite from death until hero bathes and drinks.
Escape by pretending to go to river and wash clothes.
Respite from death until mouth is washed; crow slain with arrow as he goes to wash mouth.
Escape by pretending to go for bath.
Escape by pretending to return for hair ribbon.
Girl makes toilet and calls help.
Escape by asking to die on a horse.
Escape by asking to ride on sacred buffalo.
Captured animal asks respite while he gives war alarm.
Wolf kept at door until children have been christened.
Let me live as long as this candle lasts.
Escape by asking a last kiss.
Ten (five) year respite given captive while he undertakes to teach elephant (ass) to speak.
Respite from death until muddy victim may dry self in sun.
Respite from death until one pays a last visit.
Respite from death until visit is finished.
Respite from death until captive has taken six steps toward God.
Respite from death until prisoner is healed by magic object.
Woman escapes by ruse: must go to defecate.
Respite from death for drink of water.
Kidnapped woman escapes by asking for drink of water.
Jackal persuades woman to untie his legs so that he may get a drink.
Respite from death granted until wolf reads horse's passport.
Respite from death granted while wolf counts hairs in horse's tail.
Wolf is requested by tailor to be measured for suit of clothes; wolf beaten.
Respite from death until minister shows king how to reap pearls.
Definite respite from death granted.
A year's time granted to settle affairs before death.
God grants man twenty years more of life provided he plays no tricks.
Crocodile grants boy five days respite from death.
Escape by false plea: jackal asks to be able to clasp tree before crocodile kills it.
Respite from death until hero climbs tree.
Escape from threatened captivity by pretending to send for object for captor.
Turtle allowed to go to pool to pick flowers before death.
Respite from death until victim can fall asleep.
Captors give captive respite in order to witness alleged marvel.
"Wait till I get fat." "Wait till I am fat enough to race you."
Calf: "Wait till I grow up." "Let me catch you better game."
"Wait till men come to take me from trap, then eat them." Wait for the fat goat.
Dwarf persuaded to wait for ram.
Ram promises to jump into wolf's belly.
Wolf is requested by horse to start eating from the rear; kicked to death.
"Soak me in the pond so that I will be juicy." Too dirty to eat.
Executioner kept busy or interested until rescue comes.
Respite from death gained by long-drawn-out speech.
Respite from death gained by tale of the preparation of flax.
Respite from death gained by tale of the preparation of bread.
Respite from death gained by long-drawn-out song.
Formula-tale (Ehod) saves girl from devil.
Escape by singing an endless song.
Tiger persuaded by jackals to settle argument.
Death cheated by moving bed.
Man allowed to pick out tree to be hanged on.
Escape by asking to die falling from a tree.
Man asks to be beheaded standing in tank of water.
Escape by persuading captor to talk.
Attempted escape by persuading captor to talk fails.
Animal captor persuaded to talk and release victim from his mouth.
Cat fails to be beguiled into releasing mouse.
Frog escapes after telling crow to sharpen his bill before eating him.
Sheep persuade the wolf to sing.
Crocodile persuaded to open his mouth.
Rat persuades cat to wash face before eating: escapes.
Captive trickster persuades captor to pray before eating.
Hare persuades cat to perform two gallops before eating him: escapes.
Escape because of plea that leaves means of egress open.
Jackal in tiger's house has permission to sit with tail hanging down between bamboo stems.
Tortoise persuades tiger captor to put him in pocket with hole, escapes.
Thumbling in animal's belly persuades latter to go to his father's house for plunder: rescued.
Boy swallowed by fish that is thrown up on shore persuades tiger to cut it open with injunction not to look at him.
Jackal entrapped in elephant's carcass tells passing God to show his magic power by making it rain.
Ass begs wolf to pull thorn out of foot before eating him: kicks wolf in mouth.
Escape by pretending to perform errand (do work) for captor.
Prince to giant: "Don't eat me up, and I'll prepare you a good dinner."
Man persuades robbers to postpone killing him until he can show them his treasure.
Escape by pretending to dance so as to be untied.
Hare promises to dance if doorway is left free: escapes.
Escape from captor by means of flattery.
Escape by asserting that captor will have ill luck after killing victim.
Escape by asking girl about to murder him if she will have to assume all the guilt.
Escape by false prophecy: if corpses are buried in city, it will become a ruin: king releases condemned man.
To get out of thieves' clutch, man reports high prices in another town.
Escape by false plea--miscellaneous.
Wife accused of plan to escape weeps and threatens suicide so as to allay suspicion and escape.
Monkey in danger on bridge of crocodiles pretends that the king has ordered them counted.
Escape from robbers by pretending to be going the same way but separating at the first opportunity.
Escape from pursuers by pretending to be one of them.
Monkey saved from trap by feigning marriage.
Respite while captor acts as umpire between captives.
Wolf acts as judge before eating the rams.
Tiger to help foxes divide their young.
Murder feigned to effect escape.
A handy name.
A plea for a larger audience.
Animal "punished" by being placed in favorite environment.
Drowning punishment for turtle (eel, crab).
Briar-patch punishment for rabbit.
Men double up hare's legs and throw him on the ground as punishment.
Burying the mole as punishment.
Bird punished by being thrown into air.
Birds caught in net fly away with it.
Burning the jackal.
Thieving insect put in closely woven basket asks to be put in a loosely woven one so he cannot see.
Punishment which proves fatal to captor.
Turtle persuades an animal to swallow him: causes the animal's death and escapes.
Wolf punished by being married.
Thief begs for any punishment except the luxury of two wives.
Throwing the thief over the fence.
Escape by posing as member of murderer's family or tribe.
Escape by posing as preceptor of tiger's deceased father.
"Don't eat your nephews." "Noman."
Fairy child injured by man who says that his name is "Self".
"Bee is eating the sweets." Escape under ram's belly.
The three teachings of the bird (fox).
Cannibal sent for water with vessel full of holes: victim escapes.
Cannibal sent for water which magically recedes from him: victim escapes.
Escape by singing song.
Pursuer persuaded to sing while captive escapes.
Escape by teaching song to watchman.
Trickster, pretending not to see attacking enemy, sings song of friendship.
Escape by playing music.
Escape by playing magic music.
Escape by playing sleep-bringing music.
Escape by singing watchmen to sleep.
Musician in hell playing for the devils, purposely breaks fiddle strings.
Witch put off guard by playing on jew's harp.
Escape by persuading captors to dance.
Enemy in ambush (or disguise) deceived into declaring himself.
The cave call.
Crocodile masking as a log obeys suggestion that he move upstream.
Crocodile in ambush betrays self by talking.
Sham-dead man deceived into making gesture.
Sham-dead tiger betrayed by his live penis.
Sham-dead deceived into moving by absurd action.
Leopard concealed in bundle betrays self when threat is made to run spear through bundle.
Escape by laughing and crying at same time.
Escape by putting captor off guard.
Escape by pretended lousing.
Escape by pretended cooking.
Escape from madman by sending him for cooking water.
Escape on ship on wheels after having deceived the captor into laying away sword and helm to receive pretended gift.
Man in devils' power makes them believe he will return and is permitted to leave.
Prisoner released on promise to wed guard (captor).
Prisoner released on promise of life-long allegiance.
Animal captor appeased by being fed captive's family.
Boy in hole escapes descending log by digging hole.
Murderer or captor beguiled--miscellaneous.
Cannibals advised to be absent while hero is being cooked; Cleanest girl to be eaten by ogress: clever girl shakes
sesame into fire to simulate sound of burning lice.
Pursuer persuaded to put oil on a tree when he wants to climb after fugitives.
Trickster persuades pursuers to play fatal deceptive game.
Escape by blinding the guard.
Red ants' nest broken and thrown down on ogre's head.
Escape from animals by blowing ashes into their faces.
Captive plays further and further from watchman and escapes.
Escape by pretended debate as to which must be judged.
Escape from captor by throwing objects to great distance which captor tries to procure.
Watchman outwitted by having rope stretched across the road while fugitives escape.
Abductors tricked into running race while captive escapes.
Escape by giving narcotic to guards.
Escape of girl foiled by hero's refusal to take narcotic.
Escape by making the watchmen drunk.
Escape by bribing the guard.
Escape by throwing money (treasure) so that guards fight over it.
Escape by deceiving the guard--miscellaneous.
Escape by pretended bathing of guard.
Man and woman escape by sending the she-bear to bring the woman's "forgotten" comb.
Guardian enticed away.
Tiger enticed away to gather berries: victims escape.
Tiger enticed away by slain pig.
Captor induced to disarm himself.
Captive dodges when captor tries to cut off his hand; Disarming by a shooting test.
Person holds hat just outside shelter; enemies shoot at it, Mice gnaw enemies' bow strings and prevent pursuit.
Army of mice save kingdom from enemy invading force by gnawing their provisions, ammunition, etc., to shreds.
Captor's powder is removed, ashes substituted: gun does not discharge.
Escape by arranging captor's clothes so as to delay him.
Escape by throwing captor's clothes on the fire.
Master thief persuades captors to dive into water: steals their clothes.
Sleeping enemies' hair tied to an object prevents pursuit.
Hair of sleeping maiden tied to tree so that she is not able to rise.
Holes bored in enemies' boats prevent pursuit.
Paddles broken in enemies' boat prevent pursuit.
Cutting thongs of sleds prevents pursuit.
Captive tied to captor escapes by tying end of rope to a post.
One animal saves another by frightening enemy away.
Free animal saves its captured friend.
Crow and rat release deer from snare.
Confederate sings and delays pursuers so that fugitive escapes.
Monkey attracts attention of mowers until young birds can fly away from the harvest field.
Monkey saves condemned birds through feigned dream.
Fugitive's confederate misdirects pursuer.
Confederate cuts rope almost in two so that prisoner breaks it and flees.
Bird's call attracts attention of pursuer so that trickster escapes.
Escape by help of confederate--miscellaneous.
Confederate hides fugitive.
One animal swallows another to save him from pursuer.
Tiger-mother hides concealed guests in jar.
Confederate sits on hero and saves him.
Rescuer disguised as officer gains custody of prisoner.
Boys scolded in order to conceal their identity.
Son mentioned as daughter in order to save him from enemy's pursuit.
Boys warned by dogs' names to escape.
Sons warned by talk to oaks to hide.
Confederate in disguise helps man escape.
Confederate in disguise as beggar helps to escape.
Helper dressed in bear's skin helps to escape.
Confederate in disguise as "troll" frightens king's men, while his daughter helps prisoner to escape.
Confederate saves fugitive by shammed pursuit.
Confederate causes confusion so that prisoner can escape.
Prisoner escapes by means of wolf which he lures near by smearing honey on the feet.
Escape by cutting fetters on stones, etc.
Confederate persuades captor to throw away disguised trickster.
Wolf descends into well in one bucket and rescues fox in the other.
Fox climbs from pit on wolf's back.
Prisoner kills his watchers who enter to torture him.
Captors lured into drowning selves.
Exaggerated tales about escapes.
Escape from suspicion of crime.
Fool's brothers substitute a goat for the body of the man he has killed: thus save him.
Statue mourned and buried in order to account for murdered person.
Insect in nose of murdered person simulates snoring and allays suspicion.
Waxen statue left instead of abducted queen.
Captive throws his hat to lions who fight over it while he escapes.
Captive throws his shoe at serpent who chokes while he escapes.
Sleeping potion given to man who is to pass the night with a girl.
Paramour unwittingly drinks sleeping potion.
Trickster persuades pursuers to ride in his basket.
Hero tests the rope on which he is to be pulled to upper world.
Hero hides in treasure box and thus circumvents plot to leave him below when companions pull up box.
Cutting rope to kill ogre who is climbing the rope to reach his victim.
Small animal in mouth of larger causes captor to spit him out.
Escape by catching hold of limbs of tree while passing under it.
Escape by announcing great catastrophe (end of world or the like).
Birds escape death by flying away with net.
Deception into entering bag.
Birds enticed into bag.
Deception into magic bag which closes on prisoner.
Leopard persuaded to enter bag in order to see trickster perform marvel.
Miser induced to thrust his head into bag; Ogre frightened into rolling self in mat: burned.
Witch tells boy to pass down some of fruit from tree, catches hold of him and puts him in her sack when he bends down.
Deception into allowing oneself to be fettered.
Deception into allowing oneself to be tied.
Animal allows himself to be tied so as to avoid being carried off by storm.
Animal allows himself to be tied to another for safety.
Animal persuaded to be tied by promise of food.
Animal persuaded to be tied through curiosity to learn secret names.
Ogre allows self to be tied so as to learn magic.
Animal allows self to be tied so as to learn music.
Faithless wife ties sleeping husband's hair to bed, allowing lover to kill him.
Women bind warrior's hair to wall of hostel while he sleeps.
Deception into putting on a collar.
Hare persuades wolf and fox to put their heads in loops on rope and thus strangles them to death.
Deception into entering box (or prison).
Victim tricked into prison and kept there.
Trickster persuades policeman to take his place in the stocks.
Victim tricked into entering box.
Victim tricked into jumping in a box by making him think he is going to heaven.
Tiger enticed into coffin.
Dupe tricked into entering hollow tree.
Victim tricked into entering basket.
Woman persuaded to hide head in jug: she is caught.
Animal lured into lion's den.
Victim lured into following deer sent by demon to cave.
Fish enticed into trap (promised new skins).
Deceived lion stuck in cave entrance; becomes food for hare.
Fox deceives lion into entering pit.
Deception into allowing oneself to be hanged.
Deception into bottle (vessel).
Cock persuaded to crow with closed eyes.
Dupe persuaded to close eyes and open mouth; Giant tricked into becoming mouse.
Dragon enticed into pot while in its child-form, boiled, so it can see "courage".
Dupe induced to waste his bullets, then seized.
Dupe lured away from protection of friends: captured.
Dupe persuaded to ride on trickster's back: captured.
Foxes crawl into whale's house and are killed.
Animal trapped through curiosity as to what the trap is.
Claim that a trap is a prayer house.
Frog causes deer to dance into snare.
Leopard traps lion by having two doors to cave, one large, one small.
Tortoise leads elephant down wrong trail into trap.
Birds led into trap by promise of a feast.
Wildboar captured in church.
Intruder captured in chimney.
Capture in pitfall.
Mats over holes as pitfall.
Capture in trap seat.
Knight captured in pitfall while his horse escapes.
Capture in trap bed: victim dropped into dungeon.
Pit placed under a bed.
Dupe tricked into well: left there.
Tiger enticed into pit by being tempted to leap after boar-leader.
Snapping door.
Capture by closing entrance to victim's home.
Dupe lured into hole and entrance closed.
Tiger persuaded to walk into house: locked in.
Capture by tarbaby.
Capture by tarring back of a horse.
Capture between branches of tree.
Victim captured in a noose.
Victim burned in building.
Capture by feigning death.
Capture by hiding in animal carcass.
Man plays dead and hides in money chest: catches thief.
Capture by hiding under screen (grass, leaves, etc.) Capture by hiding in disguised objects.
Capture by hiding in disguised ship.
Capture by hiding in artificial animal.
Trojan wooden horse.
Capture by hiding in artificial elephant.
Capture by hiding in artificial bird.
Capture by masking as another.
Abduction by fraudulently giving signal of husband's return.
Capture by imitation of animal's voice.
Birds captured by imitating their song.
Attempted capture by causing animal to make noise.
Attempted capture by causing owner's pig to squeal at night.
Attempted capture by ringing cowbell to sound as if cow has wandered far away.
Bird catches fishes by imitating voice of friend.
Capture by feigning illness.
Capture by hiding in baskets of food.
Capture by putting on the clothes of slain enemy.
Stranger asks woman for fire: abducts her.
Capture by hiding in hollow tree.
Witch pretends to be starving beggar woman in order to capture child.
Hare carries disguised lion covered with honey, thus luring animals into trap.
Unicorn tricked into running horn into tree.
Lioness enticed into putting head into wall to pursue hare who escapes through hole.
Victim enticed into dancing: captured.
Crabs induced to take moonlight walks: eaten.
Deception by having victim pick trickster's teeth.
Capture by sight of women's breasts.
Sight of women's breasts used to appease enemies.
Sight of unclothed women calms rage of youthful hero.
Capture by luring merchant to look at supposed bargain.
Capture by taking aboard ship to inspect wares.
Capture by intoxication (or narcotic).
Capture with aid of sleep-bringing music.
Fortress captured as harper puts garrison to sleep with music while besiegers place fingers in ears.
Man is made drunk and left in temple at mercy of demons.
Capture of castle by pretending to surrender and entering.
Capture through the wiles of a woman.
Woman (Amazon) in disguise invites enemies singly into forest and overcomes them.
Amazonian woman disguised as leper seduces and binds enemies one by one.
Capture by luring to courtesan's house.
Attack made on groom after he has been invited to female apartments to have meal with bride.
Adulteress lures husband so as to have him killed.
Castle captured with assistance of owner's daughter.
Capture by lying in wait in enemy's haunt.
Capture by blinding.
Enemy blinded with chili powder and overpowered.
In duel with long poles the ogre is forced into the pig-sty.
Fairy wins kiss in game; Maiden sent to rendezvous with lover, who is captured.
Woman lured into the forest and captured.
Princess lured into the forest by harp-playing boy or thief.
Victim lured into house and killed.
Animal enticed into palace after it had long fed out of trickster's hand.
Enemies invited to banquet and killed.
With help of captor's daughter, prisoners slay many of his soldiers at a banquet.
Enemies invited to feast and poisoned.
Jackals persuaded to enter pit to escape coming storm.
Cruel king lured to enemy's power by invitation to false execution.
Hostile visitors lured into iron house concealed by wooden walls.
Pretended friend puts food on far side of hidden ditch, victim falls in and is killed.
Victim burned in his own house (or hiding place).
Dupe's house set afire so that he is burned in trying to put out fire.
Boy teaches giants how to lay a carpet of dried grass and naphtha over the hard ground floor of their cave, sets fire to it and thus
suffocates them.
Men lured to their death when their fields are set on fire.
Monkey lures tiger into tree-top and sets fire to it.
Owner burns intruder in house.
Stag killed by lion into whose den the fox puts him.
Whimbrel sends his adulterous mate to meet him in cave.
Hare tricks civet cat into being eaten by lion.
Overcurious dupe enters trickster's basket and is killed.
Victim lured by kind words approaches trickster and is killed.
Fox persuades cock to come down and talk to him.
Fox tries to persuade cock to come down and talk to him.
Spider invites wasp (fly) to rest on her "white curtain".
Dogs listen to wolves' hypocritical words.
Cat invites hens to a feast and kills them.
Owl invites cricket to share his nectar.
Snake promises to do no harm to frog.
Cat acts as judge between sparrow and hare; eats them both.
Hawk persuades doves to elect him their king.
Tiger flatters cow into showing that she has few teeth.
Weasel induces cuckoo to tell him that it cries at night when asleep.
Wounded wolf persuades lamb to bring him a drink, adding that he will get his own food.
Boat lured to land with kind words and wrecked in order to take vengeance on the men.
Cat makes truce with mice.
Fish tricked by crane into letting selves be carried from one pond to another.
Fish, lured by kind words, are killed by old man.
Cat lures young foxes from den with music.
Jackal feigns holiness but seizes worshipping rats.
King of fishes eats his subjects as they pay him their respects day and night.
Serpent asks his victim to feed him with honey, then seizes and swallows him.
Victim told to stand ready by tree to catch bee nest as it falls;
Dupe lured to supposed dance and killed.
Victim persuaded to disarm.
Man killed with sword, which he himself is tricked into passing to captured enemy.
Giantess killed with the spear she herself has given hero.
Victim's arrows made harmless.
Deception by hiding weapons.
Fairies in animal form persuaded they will hear music better in own shapes.
Women draw warrior aside so that confederate may kill him.
Sham doctor kills his patients.
Sham doctor kills ogre (giant).
Victim persuaded to hold out his tongue: cut off.
Cormorant's tongue pulled out by putting louse on it.
Victim persuaded to hold out tongue: bitten off.
Elephant killed by cutting off trunk which is poked into cave after victims.
Man causes victim to bite his tongue off.
Man persuaded to hold out hand for alleged letter from king.
Hoodwinked dancers.
Dupe persuaded to relax vigilance; seized.
Fox persuades bird to show him how she acts in a storm: he devours her.
Cannibals persuaded to take snuff: killed.
Dupe persuaded to sing (dance) on trickster's body.
Fox shams death and catches crows that come to feed on him.
Cheese smeared on crab lures giant to smell him.
Bloodthirsty animal by trickery admitted to fold: kills peaceful animal.
Fox in sheepskin gains admission to fold and kills sheep.
Fox feigning illness admitted to hen-roost and kills the hens.
Wolf tries to cheat ewe by posing as ram.
Victim killed while being bathed.
Slave washing mistress's back in stream pushes her into crocodile hole.
Trickster sends dupe to well for drink of water; pushes him in.
Monkey killed by girls who pretend to wash its buttocks.
Dupe induced to look about: seized and killed.
Jealous wife tells sister to look below: pushes her over cliff.
Victim persuaded to look into well or pond: pushed in.
Fencer calls opponent's attention to something behind him: when opponent looks around he cuts off his head.
Female confederate disrobes before hero, who is attacked when he looks away.
Man gets bear off guard by telling her to listen for hunters: kills her.
Victim persuaded to look for certain tree: pushed over cliff.
Man asked to look at birds: pulled into pool.
Man lured into aiding trickster who has feigned an accident or needs help.
Victim killed while asleep in killer's house.
Dupe tricked into sleeping.
Dragon deceived into listening to tale: hero cuts off its head.
Ferocious boar fed and put to sleep by rubbing.
Victim killed while load is being taken from his back.
Victim lured into trough: is pounded up with poisoned fish.
Fatal deception into trickster's power--miscellaneous.
Victim enticed into eating: killed when off guard.
Victim lured into approach by false token.
Victim enticed into drinking by over-salting his food: killed when off guard.
King who demands milk from all hornless cows forced to accept bogstuff milked from wooden cows: he dies.
Camel lures wolf into looking at the writing on his breast.
Supernaturals tricked into (fatal) exposure to daylight.
Substitute for execution obtained by trickery.
Substitute for execution obtained by trickery.
Dupe persuaded to take prisoner's place in a sack: killed.
Dupe persuaded to take prisoner's place suspended in air.
Dupe persuaded to take prisoner's place in pit.
Tied animal persuades another to take his place.
Raja substitutes himself for condemned man.
Dupe persuaded to be killed in order to go to heaven.
Dupes persuaded to be burned, thinking they will be sent back with gifts.
Dupe persuaded to play for wedding party.
Pursuer persuaded to take fugitive's place in supposed swing.
Trickster being attacked by ferocious animal persuades dupe to take his place.
Deceptive game: burning each other.
Deceptive game: hanging each other.
Fatal game: drowning.
Fatal game: throwing from cliff.
Fatal swinging game.
Deceptive game: bear cubs sway in tree.
Fatal game: dying and reviving.
Deceptive game: throwing away knives.
Fatal game: shaving necks.
Fatal game: sewing each other up.
Shooting game: blind man's arrow aimed.
Jealous husband tricks blind poet into slaying wife's lover with infallible spear.
Fatal apple-throwing game.
Fatal game: putting heads in notches.
Fatal game: rolling down hill on barrel.
Fatal duel: brother kills brother in pretended game.
Deceptive sword-game: brother killed.
Deceptive game: butting one another like rams.
Fatal deceptive game--miscellaneous.
Deceptive game: fox wants to be frightened; Deceptive hide and seek game.
Deceptive game: "Eat me up!" Camel is killed by lion.
Fatal swimming race.
Fatal intoxication.
Army intoxicated and overcome.
Slaughter of drunken enemies in banquet hall.
Judith and Holofernes: girl from enemy camp chosen to sleep with intoxicated general kills him in bed.
Girl kills man sleeping with her.
Fatal deception by giving narcotic.
King given sleeping potion and then beheaded in his bed by his wife.
Groom murdered, while watchmen and bride are brought to sleep by music.
Boy makes adversary insensible by substituting opium for half of tobacco in pipe.
Drug introduced into half of fruit from enemy's fingernail where it has been hidden.
Deception by pretended lousing.
Ape pretends to louse heron, but plucks out his feathers.
Fatal deception by pretended combing of victim's hair.
Poor man deceives rich man, plays tricks on him, causes his death.
Dupe tricked into jumping to his death.
Intruding wolf tricked into jumping down chimney and killing himself.
Ape tricked into jumping on to stakes and killing himself.
Monkey tricked into jumping in water and drowning self.
Dupe tricked into jumping on supposed funeral pyre of beloved.
Dupe induced to jump over precipice.
Animals (giants) enticed over precipice.
Dupe crowded over precipice.
Dupes persuaded to be thrown over precipice.
Dupes deceived into falling over precipice.
Dupe crowded into the water: drowns.
Dupe forced on to thin ice: drowns himself.
Man leads pursuers to edge of thin ice, swerves suddenly; Cannibals enticed to climb slippery barricade: fall.
Animal left out of his element: dies or escapes.
Beaver and porcupine trick each other.
Dupe tricked on to slippery road lined with knives.
Snake killed by putting knives in animal he is swallowing.
Animal killed by axes (knives) left in tree.
Giant impales self on javelin fugitive holds behind himself.
Robbers make stairs slippery so that bathing prince falls.
Dupe tricked into measuring boar whose bristles are poisoned.
Feigning death to kill enemy.
Sham death to wound enemies.
Man feigns death to stab brother who comes to grieve.
Sleep feigned to kill enemy.
Sham dead king jumps up and kills the nearest slave.
Feigning deafness to lure enemy close and to kill him.
Robbers' (giants') heads cut off one by one as they enter house.
Robbers' (giants') noses cut off as they enter house.
Robbers' (giants') hands cut off as they enter house.
Giant's (giantess's) head cut off as he (she) looks out.
Men lured into serpent pit one by one and killed.
Ogre suitor persuaded by woman to bury her murdered lover: she cuts off his head.
Disguised hero attacks enemy at feast.
Disguised shipwrecked men admitted to the king's house kill him at Yule feast in revenge for murder.
Murder from ambush.
Bear killed from ambush as he leaves his cave.
Rock hurled down hill slays enemy passing below.
Slaying under cover of darkness.
Dancer stabs spectator.
Peacock helper dances before enemy army of hero; Treacherous murder during hunt.
Man murdered while praying.
Fox rids himself of fleas.
Artificial whale made as stratagem.
Murder by bleeding: taking more blood than victim realizes.
Person cuts drawbridge partly through.
Victim pushed into fire.
Hero entices enemies into building and sets fire to it.
Victim pushed into water.
Slaughter of animals by stampede.
Murder through transformation.
Serpent transforms self to staff, is picked up and bites enemy.
Murder by strategy--miscellaneous.
Murder by leaving poisoned wine.
One-eyed doe outwitted by approaching from her blind side.
Ruler promises minister that he will not kill him "on any day of his life."
Pretended flight draws victims.
Murder by slipping gold coins into meat customarily demanded by enemy.
Murder by feigned quarrel.
Men deceived into killing each other.
Hero, who has eloped with affianced wife of king, induced to return to court and treacherously slain during enforced absence of his
sureties at drinking bouts.
Murder by pushing off cliff.
Old wife provokes sparrow to speak and therefore drop new wife whom he is carrying in his beak.
Concealed weapons in food basket sent king: kills servant who opens it.
False message from other world causes man to go on funeral pyre.
Hare causes pursuing she-bear to stick between trees and kills her.
Sham nurse kills enemy's children.
Trickster employed to educate baby crocodiles: he eats them instead.
Trickster pollutes nest and brood of bird.
Trickster eats all of tiger's cubs but one.
Fox as shepherd.
Man betrayed into eating his own children.
Man betrayed into eating his own children and setting the village on fire.
Man betrayed into killing his wife or grandmother.
Trickster's false report of high prices causes dupe to destroy his property.
Cows killed for their hides when large price is reported by trickster.
Wives killed when large price for his mother's (wife's) corpse is reported by trickster.
Dupe burns house because trickster reports high price paid for ashes.
Enemies each burn own houses to be able to sell ashes.
Angry man kills his own horse by mistake.
Hermit (deceived by the devil) kills his own father, supposing him to be the devil.
Deceptive agreement to kill wives (children).
Woman tricked into giving poison to her husband: thinks it a love-philtre.
Bird flies on head of dupe's child.
King causes his own men to be burned and killed, by mistake or illusion.
King lured to send his sons on fatal quests and to kill nephews.
Murder by choking.
Deserted wife chokes departing husband.
Murder by throwing hot stones in the mouth.
Murder by hot iron in mouth.
Killing tiger by throwing hot hatchet into mouth.
Murder by thrusting spear (tongs) into mouth.
Murder by throwing hot fruit into victim's mouth.
Murder by feeding with bread full of pins.
Murder by throwing poisoned bread into mouth.
Murder by putting clod into person's windpipe.
Animal killed by forcing ball (of hide, wax, etc.) into throat.
Murder by feeding with honey-covered sharpened cross-pieces of wood.
Animal (monster) killed from within.
Ungrateful river passenger kills carrier from within.
Jackal, swallowed by elephant so it can drink water in his belly, eats elephant's liver and kills him.
Ungrateful rat defecates upon head of (or kills) octopus that rescues him from sea.
Man transforms self to gadfly to enter giant's stomach and kill him.
Man kills giant bear by crawling inside and cutting his way out.
Animal tricked into seizing hollow log.
Murder by squeezing.
Murder by lacing corset tight.
Murder by wrapping snake around man.
Crab carried by crane, clings round his neck and cuts off his head with pincers.
Murder by crushing in false embrace.
Murder by burning.
Murder by scalding.
Murder by burning in hot oil.
Murder by burning arrow.
Murder by destroying external soul.
Gradual murder by piecemeal destruction of separable soul.
Murder by blinding.
Killing by throwing hot salt into eyes.
Murder by drowning.
Other kinds of treacherous murder.
Murder by putting mouth of pot over victim's head.
Murder in one's sleep.
Woman's father and brothers kill her husband in sleep for having married against their wishes.
Heroes dislike to kill sleeping people.
Man murdered at his wife's side.
Woman marries king feigning that she can heal him, and murders him in sleep.
Hero attacks and kills at night hero who wanted to go to sleep before their fighting.
Tent torn down over man, and he is then killed.
Rafter supporting giant's house cut half through, so that it can be drawn down from the outside, and the giant killed.
Murder from behind.
Thorns planted so that birds are killed when they light on field.
Post-hole murder: people invite boy to enter post-hole and then try to crush him with log.
Flesh of certain animal alleged to be only cure for disease: animal to be killed.
Blood of certain animal said to be sweet.
Disease to be cured by heart of monkey.
Tit for tat.
Flesh (vital organs) of certain person alleged to be only cure for disease.
Brain of snake said to be only cure for monkey's disease.
Ogress wife demands eyes of six wives of raja or she will die.
Camel induced to offer himself as sacrifice.
Rope cut and victim dropped.
Rope of mountain-climber cut and victim dropped.
Barber killed when hero reports king's ancestors need his services in heaven.
Man with deformed head slays his barbers.
Secret of strength treacherously discovered.
Pretended exchange of confidences as to the one thing that can kill.
Hero tells enemies how he may be killed.
Secret of external soul learned by deception.
Daughter pulls out father's magic life-containing hair.
Uriah letter.
Message of death.
Leopard and crocodile both sent for the dog.
Message of death lost.
Fatal deception: changed message from oracle.
Dupe induced to stand under falling tree.
Dupe persuaded to climb tree.
Tree cut down to get at victim in top.
Dupes lured onto tree-trunk bridge; fall to death.
Man is lured into sitting in a mechanical chair and is killed.
Magic horse lent by fairy in disguise brings about death of mortal.
Murder induced by bribery (lands, riches, wives).
Person thrown out of magic airship and killed.
Dupe persuaded to go to dangerous place; killed.
Brother causes brother's death by sending him to robbers and giving false advice.
Remedy: covering with dry leaves.
Eye-remedy.
Fool deceived into curing headache by removing his eyes.
Ashes as remedy for sore eyes.
Making the dupe strong.
Making the dupe strong--by castration.
Making the dupe strong--by scalding.
False beauty-doctor.
Making the beard golden: "such a one".
"Painting" on the haycock.
Making wife beautiful by burning her.
Burning children on promise of giving them fawn's beautiful spots.
"Painting" with a red hot iron.
Trickster to give wings to tiger.
False hair-restorer injures patient.
Trick: breaking legs for prowess in dancing (or for swiftness).
Pepper given as ointment for burns.
Pepper up noses as remedy.
Pepper rubbed on injured skin.
False remedy for toothache.
Biting on stone given as remedy for toothache.
Leopard wants teeth filed: large stone dropped from tree knocks all leopard's teeth out.
Beetles and barley introduced into wounds on pretence of healing them.
Feeling pulse: doctor severs arteries instead.
Hare flatters other animals into letting it bite off their ears.
The tail fisher.
Tail buried (hair tied).
Hair tied to basket so that dupe kills self when she throws basket down.
Basket tied to wolf's tail and filled with stones.
Bear persuaded to slide down rock.
Dupe persuaded to steal food: cannot escape.
Wolf overeats in the cellar (smokehouse).
Jackal eating into elephant's dead body becomes a prisoner when it dries up;
Wolf tied to cow's horns.
Water-monster, trying to pull horse into water, is dragged to house where he begs for his life and is spared.
Bear throws hens to the fox, falls from the roof-beam, and is beaten.
Wolf brings cake from the window-sill.
Turtle induced to rob in a man's garden.
Otter persuaded to rob: beaten.
Fox eats cake: gets brass pot caught on neck.
Thieving wolf persuaded to stick head through handle of jar of wine so as to be able to carry it off and also sing.
Getting honey from the wasp-nest.
Dupe allowed to guard "king's drum": it is a wasp nest.
Dupe allowed to guard "king's girdle": it is a snake, which bites him.
Dupe persuaded to pick up biting ants.
Dupe persuaded to sit on ant hole.
Animal made to believe sound of swarming bees is that of her children singing in school.
Dupe induced to strike at bee's nest: badly bitten.
Beginning with the smallest.
Eating his own entrails.
The fox suggests eating his own brains.
Tiger persuaded to eat own eyes.
Dupe imitates trickster's thefts and is caught.
Dupe made to sit on hot stone.
Jackal persuaded to come to fireplace for food.
Hot porridge in the ogre's throat.
Dupe persuaded to climb rope for food: rope breaks.
Stone (hard fruit) thrown into greedy dupe's mouth.
Trickster pretends to give dupe magic power to produce food.
Dupe told he can get meat by putting hand up animal's anus: animal drags him.
Jackal puts head in anus of sham-dead camel: caught and punished.
Dupe injures self on fence of thorns surrounding food-plants.
Borrowed feathers.
Flight by putting on bird feathers.
Water bird takes dupe to sea: shakes him off into water.
Elephant offers to let chameleon hold on to his tail: it is oiled and chameleon falls off.
Dupe induced to eat sharp (stinging, bitter) fruit.
Monkey "shares" ointment with tiger: produces sores.
Dupe persuaded to eat stones.
Dupe induced to eat filth (dung).
Dupe induced to drink urine.
Dupe persuaded to oversalt (overpepper) food.
Dupe fed oversalted food.
Dupe persuaded to rub salt on wounds.
Dupe persuaded to scald self with hot water in order to learn languages.
The bear bites the seemingly dead horse's tail.
Diving for sheep.
Dupe induced to dive for alleged jewels.
Diving for clothes.
Diving to become strong.
Dragon attacks own image in mirror.
Robber persuaded to climb down moonbeam.
Dupe persuaded to get into grass in order to learn new dance.
Crocodile hides in strawstack and is burned to death.
Dupe allowed to guard "king's litter": sticks in mud.
Gun as tobacco pipe.
Deer persuaded to butt head into tree.
Serpent's jewel is covered with spiked helmet so that when he tries to recover it he strikes and is spiked to death.
Dupe digs till he dies of exhaustion.
Dupe persuaded to transform self into animal.
Man dupes animals into turning their tongues upside down.
Duck persuades cock to cut off his crest and spurs.
Dupe induced to incriminate himself.
Trickster teaches a dupe a strange language.
The laborer teaches his master birds' talk.
Teaching Latin.
Peas strewn on stairs so that person will slip.
Fairy induces hero to dive into lake which makes person old.
Dupe tricked into sitting on hot iron.
Fox persuades bear to lie in the haycock and wait for sheep.
Dupe tricked into breaking tabu by lying.
Men tricked into bathing in "disease-water".
Dupe sleeps on the "king's bed": falls into well beneath and dies.
Blind men duped into fighting.
Blind men duped into fighting: money to be divided.
"I don't believe you have a gold coin." Blind men duped into fighting: stolen meat.
Blind men duped into fighting: strings leading to water removed.
Ogres (large animals, sharp-elbowed women) duped into fighting each other.
Enemies duped into fighting each other.
Missile thrown among enemies causes them to fight one another.
Object thrown into air causes enemies to fight over it.
Bird lighting on the heads of group of men causes them to kill one another with blows on the head.
Undesignated present starts quarrel for its possession.
Liar brings about fight between dupes.
Trickster tells lies to fishes and causes them to fight.
Jackal tells tales so as to get buffalo and tiger to kill each other;
Liar brings enmity between friends.
Trickster attempts to bring friends to fight.
Calumniators try to bring friendly kings to fight, but fail at last.
Woman makes trouble between man and wife: the hair from his beard.
Woman makes trouble between man and wife (to lick husband's body).
Woman makes trouble between man and wife: to keep certain rendezvous.
Woman induces men to fight over her and kill each other.
Falsified message brings about a war.
Men disrobe and report they have been attacked: bring about war.
Message falsified to bring about death of lovers.
Dissension aroused in army by casting suspicion on general.
Brothers duped into killing each other by slander that one of them is father to the other's child.
Goddess arouses heroes' jealousy and eternal fighting.
Treacherous counselor persuades king's son to woo his father's young bride whom he is sent to get, and as he tells the king that he
is her lover both are killed.
God persuades hero to substitute a false bride for his father;
Dupe puts hand (paws) into cleft of tree (wedge, vise).
Dupe wishing to learn to play fiddle has finger caught in cleft of tree.
Dupe wishing to learn to play flute puts tongue in split bamboo.
Ogre's (dwarf's) beard caught fast.
Dupe caught in crack in ground.
Ogre helps tortoise who snaps jaws to and catches him.
Bending the tree.
Tree becomes light (after all honey has been collected from nests), springs back and kills tribe's enemies.
Abandonment on stretching tree.
Dupe persuaded to climb tall tree.
Fox rings the bell.
The oath on the iron.
Animal gets bait from trap by luring another animal into it.
Dupe induced to sit on sharp stones (concealed as soft seat).
Ogre induced to sit on reversed harrow.
Wolf (lion) approaches too near to horse: kicked in face.
Wolf (lion) as sham doctor looks at horse's foot: kicked in face.
Sow kicks wolf into stream when he comes close to baptize her pigs.
Dupe tries to dig up alleged treasure buried in ant hill: bitten by snake and killed.
Peter receives the blows twice.
Dupe persuaded to throw away his knife.
The lying goat.
Casual words uttered by dupe used to cheat him of his property.
Animals hidden in various parts of a house attack owner with their characteristic powers and kill him when he enters.
Man persuaded to go to store with scythe.
Secret learned by intoxicating dupe.
Plot to induce king to commit a crime.
Dupe tricked in race into falling into a pit.
Falling beam in cave kills travelers lured within.
Minister dupes raja into entering body of dead parrot, then enters rajah's body.
Dupe deceived concerning the thunder; finally killed by it.
Sheep makes fox believe that the hunter is a priest, the dog his servant, etc.
Hot tin under the horse's tail.
Rat leaves serpent behind, through spared to rescue him.
Tiger persuaded to cross river carrying vat rim-upwards.
Vergil in the basket.
Lover caught in roof.
Lover left standing in snow while his mistress is with another.
Terrorizing the paramour (importunate lover).
Woman dares husband to try his sword on pile of clothing which hides her paramour.
Adulteress frightens paramour with cries of "Rape!" Then she removes her husband's suspicion by feigning a fit.
Prostitute frightens lover with cries of "Thief!" Gets his money.
Hercules spins for his beloved.
Importunate lover induced to dress as woman and sift flour.
Importunate lover is induced to undergo series of humiliations.
Aristotle and Phyllis: philosopher as riding horse for woman.
Hidden paramour taken to his own wife.
Tale of the basin.
Importunate lovers led astray.
The entrapped suitors.
The entrapped suitors: the chaste wife tricks them into casks.
The entrapped suitors: the chaste wife has them caught.
The entrapped suitor: tricked into room where he is left to himself.
Importunate lover imprisoned and starved: later given choice of lady or food.
Lover hidden by wife in room made to fall into deep pit of treacle.
Importunate lover (priest) is forced to hide in chest.
Four importunate lovers are forced to hide in four-compartmented chest which is sold.
Importunate suitor enticed into sack and beaten by husband.
Priest caught in lasso by rival lover.
Importunate suitor has his head shaved and tarred and is put into a sack and returned to his men.
To get "nothing" and to show it.
Suitor locked in pigsty.
Suitors one by one enticed into graveyard and left together.
Suitors as corpse, angel, and devil.
Three women humiliate importunate lover.
Girl asks importunate lover for weapon to use against her father.
Importunate lover beaten and sent on street bearing humiliating placard.
Importunate lover tied to tree.
Importunate lover beaten with canes filled with straw.
Obscene tricks are played on repugnant simpleton who wishes to marry.
Importunate lover is given a rendezvous.
Wife takes lover beneath tree where she has told husband to hide.
Woman tricks importunate lover with the head of a pike.
Mistress deceives lover with a substitute.
Bride escapes from foolish husband and leaves goat as substitute in bed.
Mistress sends man's own wife as substitute without his knowledge.
Chaste woman sends man's own wife as substitute (without his knowledge).
Wife (mistress) substitutes for mistress (wife).
Chaste woman substitutes corpse for herself in the bed of an insistent suitor.
King's daughter deceives king by substituting her maid.
Lover given rump to kiss.
Lover put off by deceptive respite.
Lover put off till girl bathes and dresses.
Suitors put off till web is woven.
Respite from wooer while he brings clothes all night.
Girl refuses to dance with a devil until she is well dressed.
Girl asks undesired lover to take off his boots.
Girl tells physician-seducer she cannot meet his wishes until after he bathes.
Woman leaves importunate lover waiting in her room.
Girl puts off consummation of marriage to undesirable suitor by saying her "stomach is sick".
Girl asks undesired lover to follow her but not to step on her shadow.
Girl says she has made vow not to marry until pilgrimage is made.
Girl as umpire in suitor test (shooting arrows) escapes.
Importunate lover kept overlong at supper: must leave.
Escape from undesired lover by alleging menstrual period.
Abducted princess tells her abductor to wait for her menstrual period of 12 years to terminate.
Woman humiliates would-be lover.
Chaste woman refers lover to her husband for permission.
Chaste woman refers lover to his wife.
Lover deceived by false suicide agreement.
Lover's anger softened by sham suicide attempt.
Lover humiliated by his impotence.
King tricked into sleeping with hag.
Disguise as man to escape importunate lover.
Girl plays at dice with her suitors: locks them up when they are defeated.
Trickster rides dupe horseback.
Trickster rides dupe a-courting.
Priest trapped in window and humiliated.
Holding up the rock.
Holding up the roof.
Fox pretends to be guarding the sky and watching the earth.
Holding down the hat.
Dupe persuaded to fight with alleged gold-dropping bear: trickster meantime steals his clothes.
The general hatches out an egg.
Person hypnotized into believing himself transformed.
Man falsely reported insane.
Man carried and dropped in mid-stream.
Amorous intrigue observed and exposed.
Threat to tell of amorous intrigue used as blackmail.
The bag of lies: threat to tell of queen's adultery.
Princess made to speak desired words when hero threatens to report (falsely) her amorous conduct.
Educated chickens tell of woman's adultery.
Man hidden in roof sees girl and lover and falls: they flee and leave him in possession.
Man having seen woman and lover from roof threatens to tell about it; is paid to stop.
Man hidden in roof (or elsewhere) sees girl and lover: blows horn.
Observer of intrigue insists on sharing in it (or enjoys the girl after putting the man to flight).
Lovers observed in intrigue make absurd excuses.
Amorous intrigue exposed and faithless husband humiliated.
Wife surprises husband in adultery and shames him into giving her all she desires.
Adulteress tells lover "I can see the whole world." The Lord above will provide.
Man abed with his wife is frightened away by an intruder who steals his clothes.
Abbess puts priest's trousers on her head.
Discovery of abbot's (abbess's) incontinence brings permission to monks (nuns) to do likewise.
Girl who cannot keep silent thereby provokes her rival to admit unchastity.
Girl refusing her lover final kiss provokes rival to admit selling kisses.
Woman draws a pelt to her instead of her husband.
Priest draws a sow to him instead of a woman.
Rascals pull off judge's breeches and leave him exposed.
Mock initiation for dupe.
King induced to kiss horse's rump: trickster then threatens to tell.
Opposing witnesses's pockets filled with dung.
Hostile brother-in-law made king's inferior by being tricked to hold his sword, while the king arranges his breeches belt.
Mortal woman seduced by a god.
Woman won and lost by a ruse.
Seduction by masking as woman's husband.
Seduction by masking as woman's husband: "Why--you have just left!" After the seduction the husband comes and the wife shows surprise.
Trickster kills husband and puts on his skin so as to seduce wife.
Husband's twin brother mistaken by woman for her husband.
Seduction by wearing coat of invisibility.
Seduction by impostor.
Seduction by posing as a god.
Seduction by posing as Angel Gabriel.
Seduction on promise that issue will be the fifth Evangelist.
Seduction on feigned orders from angel to engender a pope.
Seduction by posing as doctor.
Girl persuaded to sit on certain plant: seduced.
Seduction by sham process of retrieving lost gem.
Seduction by sham process of repairing vagina.
Seduction by pretending to give childless man's wife medicine.
Seduction by posing as magician.
Seduction by feigning enchantment.
Seduction attempted on promise of magic transformation: woman to mare.
Seduction by posing as a relative.
Seduction by posing as nobleman.
Prostitute poses as noble woman.
Seduction by posing as holy man (churchman).
Tricksters persuade women that they must share their marital intimacies with them.
Seduction attempted on threat of performing miracle.
Girl disguised as friar gets into priest's bed.
Seduction by posing as saint.
Seduction by posing as teacher or instructor.
Seduction by pretending to instruct (or to need instruction) in marital duties.
Seduction under pretence of teaching a game.
Seduction upon false promise of marriage.
Seduction by offering protection against non-existing danger.
Seduction by posing as beggar.
Seduction by posing as leper.
Seduction by posing as merchant.
Seduction by masking as soldier.
Seduction: weaver posing as king.
Lover's place in bed usurped by another.
Serving-man in his master's place.
Master in serving-man's place in woman's bed.
Leper intercepts letter and takes paramour's place with princess.
Old woman intercepts letter and takes girl's place in man's bed.
Letter delivered to wrong man.
Vengeful paramours send syphilitic man to substitute in woman's bed.
Man caught running by guards has to tell his destination.
Woman substitutes for her daughter in the dark.
Use of drugs to usurp lover's place.
Woman drugs sister and substitutes for her with lover.
Woman mistakes passer-by for lover.
Moorish (black) girl substituted for mistress (in the dark).
Man intercepts love letter and takes lover's place in elopement.
Devil comes to rendezvous instead of woman's lover.
Trickster shifts married couples in bed.
Seduction by man disguising as woman.
Man disguised as woman admitted to women's quarters: seduction.
Man disguised as pregnant woman admitted to girl's bed.
Seducer successfully disguised as washerwoman for fifteen years.
Man wishes to learn and gains entrance to learned girl's presence in woman's disguise.
Man disguised as woman abducts princess.
Man disguised as woman courted (married) by another man.
Man disguised as woman beguiles hostile chief.
Men disguised as women enter convent and seduce impious nuns.
Girl masked as man wins princess's love.
The lovely ascetic (girl in man's clothes) wins love of a rich woman.
Man disguised as gardener enters convent and seduces nuns.
Messenger from lover to girl-captive in harem poses as a singer who amuses the harem ladies in their apartments.
Seduction by feigned death.
Death feigned to woo maiden.
Hero feigns death and is copulated with by divine maidens.
Seduction by feigned sleep.
Seduction by feigned illness.
Seduction by asking for sham cure for sham illness.
Seduction by feigned stupidity.
Disguise as animal to seduce woman.
"No!" Seduction by taking aboard ship to inspect wares.
Seduction by scattering jewels.
Seduction by enticing woman to inspect wares in tent.
Seduction by promise of jewels.
Seduction by having maiden placed in floating chest.
Seduction (or wooing) on an aerial journey.
Seduction (or wooing) by stealing clothes of bathing girl (swan maiden).
Magic helper brings girl to hero's bed.
Girl tricked into man's room (power)-- miscellaneous.
Fresh hides spread on grass; girl slips up and is deflowered.
Woman enticed to upper world on a stretching tree.
Seduction by luring woman to platform to look for distant ship.
Woman enticed into man's room by feigned illness.
Seduction by sham beauty test.
Girl tricked by use of drugs.
Seduction by priest who insists on woman having confession in his own house.
Trickster agrees to carry old woman and girl across stream: carries girl across and rides off with her leaving old woman on other side.
Leak in roof over woman's bed: in rain must go to bed with trickster.
Entrance to woman's room in hollow artificial animal.
Entrance to woman's room in golden ram.
Entrance into woman's (man's) room by hiding in chest.
Man carried into woman's room hidden in basket.
Entrance into woman's room in lamp stand.
Heroine in hiding-box which is bought by prince.
Man in magic hiding box bought by girl's father.
Man drawn up into female apartments on rope.
Man drawn up into female apartments in basket.
Man disguised as woman carried into princess's room: marries her.
Tunnel entrance to guarded maiden's chamber.
Girl seduced from beneath ground.
Tale of the cradle.
Hero flies to maiden's room.
Hero flies on magic carpet to maiden's room.
Man is ushered into maiden's room by maidservant.
Lover gets into maiden's room by means of a ladder.
Other means of entering into girl's (man's) room (bed).
Disguise to enter girl's (man's) room.
Lover disguised as porter gains access to princess's room.
Disguise as madman to enter girl's room.
Trickster gains access to woman's room disguised as peddler.
Man disguised as groom enters mistress's room.
Man feigns sick in order to enter room of princess skilled in healing, and woos her for his friend.
Trickster gains access to woman's room by pretending he has news of her absent lover.
Access gained by the aid of rival's mule.
Lover visits guarded maiden while harper puts mother to sleep.
Access for seduction gained by removing locks.
Lover gets self carried into beloved's house to wait for clean clothes after a purposeful fall in mud.
Man burns down own neighboring house to gain access to bedroom of beloved.
Entrance into woman's room through concealed door.
Trickster pretends to seek lost ball by woman's bed: seduces her.
Admission to woman's room by means of cap of invisibility.
The weeping bitch.
Death feigned to woo maiden.
Woman deceived into sacrificing honor.
Trickster offers food for woman's favors which will completely satisfy him.
Seduction by bearing false order from husband or father.
"Both?" Trickster masking as girl's father advises intercourse with
trickster.
Seduction by bringing false order from husband.
Trickster asks husband for one thing and the wife for another.
Trickster friar seduces woman under pretence of administering forgotten sacrament.
Fox sleeps with tiger's wife by giving her deceptive message from her mate.
Seduction by bearing false order from mother.
Friar undertakes to awaken girl.
Trickster masking as bridegroom tells bride that he comes at her mother's request.
Seduction by bearing false order from lover.
Altered letter of execution gives princess to hero.
Lover's gift regained.
Girl shows herself naked in return for youth's dancing hogs.
Beggar buys right to sleep before the girl's door, at foot of bed, in the bed.
Transformed person sleeps before girl's door, at foot of bed, in the bed.
Progressive purchase of favors: the anatomical progression.
Seduction by begging into woman's room to get warm.
Innocent girl sells her "love" and later receives it back.
Seduction of person ignorant of sexual intercourse.
Putting the Devil in Hell.
Putting the Devil in hand.
Friar adds missing nose (fingers) to unborn child: foetus is imperfect and he will substitute for absent husband.
Woman abducted by giving her medicine which appears to have killed her.
Second daughter won by representing first as dead.
Monk persuades a father to set daughter afloat in box: monk seduces her.
Seduction by making woman jealous of co-wife.
Bride-stealing.
Lover steals bride from wedding with unwelcome suitor.
Parson deceived into marrying his intended bride to her real lover.
Lover's foster brother (friend) steals bride from wedding with unwelcome suitor.
Father tricked into giving away disguised daughter in marriage.
Rat changes name and wins wife intended for leopard.
Lover in disguise abducts beloved.
Lover masks as king, knight.
Lover masks as minstrel.
Man gets bridegroom drunk and enjoys the bride.
While chief is performing suitor task, rival steals the bride.
Woman engaged to marry by trick.
Princess tricked into engaging herself to suitor rejected by her father.
Fool passed off as very eligible young man by matchmaker.
Seduction by alleged vision promising woman to man.
Seduction of wife by alleging that husband's vision compels him to leave home.
Incestuous marriage arranged by trick.
Trickster pretends lameness and is taken on woman's back: violates her.
Trickster throws corpse into river and accuses princess of murder: marriage to avoid scandal.
Female overpowered when caught in tree cleft (hole in hedge).
Man won over by woman's obscene trick.
Lecherous trickster seduces women from tree and loses them.
Trickster sends letter ordering bearer detained and meanwhile steals bearer's wife.
Husband persuaded to dig up a treasure buried in an ant hill.
Long distance sexual intercourse.
Trickster and girls play obscene tricks on one another.
Woman seduces boy by feigning illness (chill, etc.) Man coveting his friend's wife causes her to leave her
husband.
Seduction by giving aphrodisiac.
Guest at inn is told that there is but one available bed: that of the mistress.
Lucretia seduced through threat.
The trickster with painted member.
Additional seductions.
The taming of the wild prince.
The unusual names.
Seduction: trickster shows girl how to store up warmth for winter.
Woman secures man's spear (arrow), lures him with it into her hut.
Teacher seduces pupil left in his charge.
Plowing the field: horse and harness destroyed.
Lighting the road (or painting the house red).
Guarding the door.
Take care of the stopper! The son puts the stopper into his pocket, and all the tar (beer) runs out.
Repairing the house.
Tearing up the orchard (vineyard).
Closing the door tight: with iron nails.
Whetting the knife: the whole blade whetted away.
Clearing land: axe broken.
Threshing grain: granary roof used as threshing flail.
Mowing grass: the meadow torn up.
Clearing out manure: digs hole.
Cleaning out manure: piles it high.
Covering the whole wagon with tar.
Filling the pen.
Sowing grain: does so in unplowed field.
Trickster saws legs of table so that it collapses.
Fixing fences: trickster cuts fence down.
Twisting twine: trickster cuts it.
Building a bridge of cattle.
Casting eyes: animal's eyes.
Cleaning the horse.
Horse's intestine fastened to stone.
Making sheep laugh and dance.
To drive cattle to jungle: trickster kills a bull every day.
Tying the cattle: trickster ties them so tightly they are strangled.
Watching the goats: "Hit them if they wander." Trickster exchanges master's tame horse for vicious
bullock.
Caring for the child: child killed.
Cleaning the child.
Child taken to defecate over ant hole.
Cleaning the children.
Washing the grandmother--in boiling water.
To heat water for master's bath.
To cover house with straw: suffocates mother under straw.
Trickster deceives dupe into killing his own children.
Blinded slave's revenge.
Master's mother killed: wood heaved on her head.
Cuckold.
Solomon as cuckold.
Cuckold feigns to be asleep when paramour calls.
Adulteress kills home-coming husband.
Wife of philanderer gets revenge by having an affair herself.
The husband locked out.
Adulteress refuses to admit husband under pretence that he is a stranger.
The cut-off nose.
Cut-off finger proves wife's chastity.
The wife's equivocal oath.
Adulteress gets rid of husband while she entertains lover.
The husband in the chicken house.
Husband duped into doing penance while rascal enjoys the wife.
Husband duped into believing he is in purgatory.
Returning husband beaten by servants.
Husband beaten by paramour.
Husband hides in curtain to catch paramour.
Cuckold husband hides under bed.
Husband hides in chest to catch paramour.
Adulteress locks up hidden husband and meets lovers.
Wife has hiding husband carried off in basket by thieves.
Wife throws husband down precipice so she can be with lover.
Adulteress has lover unload wood on doorstep.
Adulteress sets husband to watch for intruder while she entertains the paramour.
Illness feigned to call physician paramour.
Adulteress pretends to go to say her prayers.
Adulteress gives paramour tryst in house of ill-fame.
Paramour unties mare.
Adulteress throws small coffer out of window.
Lover masks as pregnant woman: adulteress sent by husband to act as midwife, meets lover.
Adulteress together with lover while husband sleeps.
Wife drugs husband and visits paramour.
Husband frightened into sleeping alone.
Adulteress makes excuse to go and attend to bodily needs: meets lover.
The animal in the chest.
The husband's good eye covered.
Adulteress binds husband's eyes and causes him to sing incantations concerning the adultery.
The husband's good eye treated.
Physician treating man's eye covers his one good eye.
Girl covers nurse's one good eye so that she cannot see her lover.
Adulteress extinguishes light to hide her paramour.
Adulteress covers husband's eyes during incantation.
Adulteress persuades husband to milk cow with his eyes blindfolded: meets lover.
The faithless wife asks her gullible husband how he would act if he were blind.
Wife washes husband's hair hiding his eyes while lover escapes unseen.
Wife has husband look for hole in pot she has bought, allowing lover to escape unseen.
Wife shows husband her milk-filled breasts and squirts milk in his eyes allowing lover to escape unseen.
Paramour escapes by disguise.
The lovers as pursuer and fugitive.
One lover disguised and carried out of house by other.
Paramour poses as doctor.
Paramour in vat: disguise as vat-buyer.
Lover hidden in chest with feathers.
Paramour falls in cesspool.
Paramour poses as unsuccessful suitor.
Paramour escapes disguised as monk.
Paramour disguised as pregnant woman.
Paramour poses as robber.
Paramour disguised as cloth merchant is surprised by the husband.
Paramour leaving love-tryst is met by husband.
Paramour escapes by pretending to be returning borrowed basket.
Escaping paramour said to be a deity.
The enchanted pear tree.
Husband who has surprised wife and paramour is made to believe that he has had an illusion.
Paramour successfully hidden from husband.
Paramour successfully hidden in chimney (fireplace).
Paramour successfully hidden in chest.
Paramour placed in chest and covered with clothing.
Paramour hidden under the wash.
Paramour hidden in the bed.
Wife hides lover under bed.
Paramour hidden behind a screen.
Lover escapes behind the sheet which wife holds up to show her husband.
Husband busied with performing task while paramour escapes.
Paramour rolled into a carpet.
Husband in hanging tub to escape coming flood.
Underground passage to paramour's house.
Adulteress falls in mud at lover's door.
The Lord above; the lord below.
Friar's trousers on adulteress's bed: relic to cure sickness.
The feigned wedding-feast.
Wife confesses to disguised husband.
Husband transformed to goat must witness wife's adultery.
Gullible husband under the bed.
Adulteress tells her lover how she loves her husband.
Adulteress tells how she may save her husband's life.
Gullible husband behind the tree.
Adulteress transforms her husband into an animal to get rid of him.
Adulteress transforms man to stone up to the waist.
Woman has husband made monk while he is drunk, so as to get rid of him.
Death feigned to meet paramour.
Wife feigns death and slips out to lover.
Death feigned so man can live with mistress.
Sexton's own wife brings her offering.
Husband frightened by wife's paramour in hog pen.
The marked coat in the wife's room.
Husband unwittingly instrumental in wife's adultery.
Husband rescues wife's paramour.
Wives wager as to who can best fool her husband.
Woman warns lover of husband by parody incantation.
Woman warns lover of husband by singing song.
Woman encourages paramour by song.
Adulteress makes believe that her suspicious husband is insane.
Adulteress outwits husband--miscellaneous motifs.
Woman has paramour steal her husband's clothes.
Wife surprised in adultery feigns death.
Lover carried away on mistress's shoulders so that his footprints will not be visible in the snow.
Lover leaves horse outside house as husband comes up: wife tells husband their cow has foaled a horse.
Unfaithful wife communicates with lover by pouring milk into stream.
Wife's attendants on trip chase wrong man as suspected lover and miss real lover.
Husband deceived as to noise made by hidden paramour.
Woman cooks food for paramour.
Adulteress detected by food she prepares for paramour.
Husband discovers wife's adultery.
Adulteress detected: husband secretly drops dye on her dress.
Adulteress detected by food she prepares for paramour.
Husband returns home secretly and spies on adulteress and lovers.
Husband returns secretly and kills unwelcome suitor.
Husband feigns blindness and avenges himself on his wife and her paramour.
Husband feigns illness to surprise wife with paramour.
The husband sets house afire and ousts hidden paramour.
Trickster sets fire to barrel of tow in which paramour is hidden.
Husband carries off box containing hidden paramour.
Dying woman lures paramour into chest.
Chest containing paramour unwittingly taken away by husband.
Lover hidden in hen-coop discovered by husband.
The devil in the barrel.
Old Hildebrand.
Adulteress binds husband's eyes and causes him to sing incantations concerning the adultery.
Husband discovers wife's adultery by riddling conversation.
Husband discovers paramour's love letter in his wife's purse after having made her drunk.
The husband prepares to castrate the crucifix.
Husband castrates paramour.
The husband meets the paramour in the wife's place.
Husband hides in wife's room and kills paramour.
Husband catches paramour in pitfall.
Husband (god) traps wife and paramour with magic armor.
Husband proves intrigue by secretly blacking paramour's mouth.
Blades (broken glass) to wound and detect wife's lover.
Cuckolded man shuts wife's paramour in chest and lies on the chest with latter's wife.
Cuckold unwittingly lies with wife on chest containing her hidden paramour.
Husband tricks wife into riding a mule which has been denied water.
Husband in disguise begs food of his wife's suitors.
Husband outwits wife and paramour--miscellaneous motifs.
Husband collects fee from paramour.
Husband surprises wife and paramour.
Illness feigned to go to mistress.
Husband takes place of paramour.
Husband catches paramour by using wife's pre-arranged signal.
Husband persuades wife to light wicks and carry knife in hand before committing adultery: lovers frightened away.
Alleged speaking privates.
Husband discomfits paramour and wife by clever remark showing that he knows all.
Husband kills surprised paramour.
Trickster discovers adultery: food goes to husband instead of paramour.
Trickster discovers adultery: gets food prepared for paramour.
Trickster as sham magician makes adulteress produce hidden food for her husband.
Trickster makes woman believe that her husband is coming to punish her adultery.
Trickster sends his master running after the paramour.
Trickster as sham magician buys chest containing hidden paramour.
Sham magician has paramour fall in a trap.
Trickster discovers woman's paramour and hides him in outhouse: rewarded by husband.
Second lover burns paramour at window with hot iron.
God Vishnu in shape of nephew scares and torments his aunt's lover.
The lover's gift regained.
Lover's gift regained: the broken (removed) article.
Lover's gift regained: horse and wagon as gift.
Lover's gift regained: borrowing from the husband and returning to the wife.
Lover's gift regained: accidental discovery of identity.
Lover's gift regained: piece of cloth as gift.
Lover claims payment for cloth in the presence of the husband.
Lover demands return of cloth on threat to await the husband's return.
Lover's gift regained: jewelry as gift.
Lover's gift regained: anser venalis (goose as gift).
Lover delays the gift of the goose hoping to obtain greater favors.
Lover's gift regained: refusal to leave bed.
Lover's gift regained: spending money to purchase lover's worthless goods.
Lover's gift regained: payment with worthless money.
Prostitute paid with counterfeit money.
Husband gets gift which paramour has given to wife.
Lover blackmails adulteress.
After seducing priest's wife, peasant demands earrings as price of silence.
Husband duped by paramour into taking his wife to him.
Innocent confessor duped into being go-between for adulteress and lover.
Wife takes servant's place and discovers husband's adultery.
Paramour feigns loss of genitals in order to obtain the husband's confidence.
Adulteress uses the public baths as a meeting-place with her lover.
Woman excites peasant (secretary), who draws line on floor and dares her to cross it.
Seventy tales of a parrot prevent a wife's adultery.
Faithless wife kills magic parrot which has betrayed her.
Peacock left as spy on adulterous wife.
Dog guards chastity of master's wife during his absence.
Paramour sends prostitutes in disguise to take mistress to "convent".
Adulteress disguised as boy elopes with paramour.
Student extends his course so as to enjoy the professor's wife.
The "loyal" adulteress.
Faithful wife in disguise saves husband from punishment for adultery.
Deceiver falls into his own trap (literally).
Pitfall arranged but victim escapes it.
Man falls into sacrificial grave prepared for others.
Thief-catcher caught by his own magic club.
Substituted caps cause ogre to kill his own children.
Substituted string causes ogre to be killed.
Guest to be killed suspects plot and forces host to sleep in his bed.
Girl takes place of impostor in marriage bed; impostor's mother beats her, thinking she is heroine.
Noose changed so that ogre's daughter is dragged to death.
Kid puts one of tigress's cubs in his place: she eats the cub.
Message of death fatal to sender.
Person sends wrong man to sleep with king's daughter.
"Shoot any thief who comes." Poisoner poisoned with his own poison.
Would-be poisoner forced to drink poisoned cup.
Person trying to blow poison on another is himself poisoned.
Wife poisons husband who in turn poisons her.
Person gives his wife a poisoned drink; she pours the two drinks together.
Poisoner's own son takes the beverage intended for step-brother.
Son who intends to poison father drinks the poison by mistake.
Snake killed by incantation he has taught clever woman.
Father delivering daughter to be eaten by cannibal is himself eaten.
Ogre's own moccasins burned.
Marooned man reaches home and outwits marooner.
Marooned egg-gatherer.
Marooned man hides himself in ogre's clothes and outwits him.
Substituted arrows.
Deceiver in swinging contest killed.
Tiger in sheep's clothing stolen by sheep-thief.
Thief climbing rope discovered and rope cut.
Lawyer agrees to pay debt on winning his first case.
Woman who engages false bridegroom for her daughter has plans go astray.
Monkey instead of girl in floating basket: hermit made laughing-stock.
Would-be killers killed.
Earl killed in combat with man he has undertaken to kill.
Treacherous counselor killed in treacherous ballgame he himself has arranged.
Boiling water meant for cooking hero used for man who has prepared it.
Sons have servant impersonate dead father and falsify his will.
The bribed boy sings the wrong song.
Fox leads ass to lion's den but is himself eaten.
Cock's advice proves disastrous to himself.
Partnership of Honesty and Fraud: Fraud loses.
Maids must rise even earlier.
Flattering foreman tricked by his master.
Ambushed trickster killed by intended victim.
Husband intending to push wife down mountain is pushed over by her.
Mole as trickster killed in his own tunnel.
Animal strangled by victim which he tries to eat.
Woman ordered to strip has lover turn his back; pushes him into water (pit).
Woman bitten by own fierce watchdog.
Woman who tries to push husband into river falls in when he steps aside.
The lawyer's mad client.
"No argument good without a witness." Sham dumb man wins suit.
Unjust official outwitted by peasant who quarrels with him and thus turns the attention of the ruler to the abuses.
The order for six loads of snow.
Spying parent jolted in basket.
Trickster eats his own dog.
Unjust banker deceived into delivering deposits by making him expect even larger.
Blind man gets back his stolen treasure by making thief expect a larger one.
Retrieving the buried treasure.
Blind man asks thief to invest a larger sum for him.
Dwarf himself falls in love with girl he has seduced by magic love, and loses her as he is forced to remove his magic.
Sage's advice followed: he is killed so that sacrifice can be mixed with his blood.
Bear (tiger) substituted for woman in floating box; Swindlers allowed to hide money: proves to be basket of
stones.
Pretended sick man aroused by beating.
Woman, who pretends to faint, comes to life when beaten by magician in order to drive out alleged evil spirit.
Magician challenged to make good his false claim.
Originator of death first sufferer.
Inventor of death machine is first to use it.
Disguised trickster beaten by man he is trying to frighten.
"Big 'Fraid and Little 'Fraid." Tables turned on procuress by chaste wife.
Seller of pardons robbed by man whom he has pardoned beforehand.
The treasure-finders who murder one another.
Tail sticking from ground betrays killing of calf.
The easier job.
The woman as cuckoo on the tree shot down.
A man in place of a cuckoo.
Woman killed.
Teacher instructs pupil in the art of love: cuckolded.
Trickster's eggs become an omelet.
Trickster makes believe he has found a purse (which he had filled with lead).
Ogre made to believe small hero is large: overawed.
Tiger made to believe porcupine bristle is his enemy's hair: overawed.
Boys threaten to harness tiger.
Weak animal (man) makes large one (ogre) believe that he has eaten many of the large one's companions.
Weak animal shows strong his own reflection and frightens him.
Weak animal shows strong his own reflection and makes him believe that it is the head of the last animal slain by the weak.
Man shows ghost its own reflection and frightens it.
Man shows demon reflection and frightens him.
Bluff: only one tiger; you promised ten.
The wolf flees from the wolf-head.
Enemies frightened away by making them think they will be eaten.
Spirits frightened away by making them think they will be eaten.
Leopard frightened away by report of lizard's presence.
Trickster pretends to hunt certain tree with which his ancestors have killed tigers.
Bluff: small (lame) hero makes demon believe he is a god and threatens to eat him.
Bluff: hero to brother, "You take one and I can manage the rest."
Trickster purports to be deity's messenger to procure demon-skins for his drum.
Ass claims to have killed cow: frightens tiger.
Lion frightened away by stabbing at it from inside iron cage.
Large animal frightened by smaller showing him well rope (for his tail), curds (for spit), winnowing fans (for ears).
Tiger made to believe that his captor has eaten many crabs.
Fox overawes lion cubs by his boasting and eats their food.
Hare as ambassador of the moon.
Big shoes in front of the barn.
Ogre overawed by hero's boasts about marvelous relatives.
Bluff: thunder said to be the rolling of hero's brother's wagon.
Bluff: millstones said to be pearls of hero's mother.
Bluff: huge cauldron of tar said to be kitchen-pot of hero's mother.
Bluff: harrow said to be comb of hero's mother.
Bluff: plow said to be hoe of hero's mother.
Hero proves himself a cannibal by trick vomit-exchange.
Hero frightens dog into giving up eating men by pretending to eat own entrails.
Ant-eater deceives jaguar by excrement-exchange.
Monkey pretends that his house always answers him.
Goat pretends to be chewing rock.
"St. George's Dogs" "Dogs are chasing you," says ox to jackal.
Tiger thinks sound of water dropping is sound of dreadful monster: flees.
Giantess frightened of leaving cave because of hero's statue in entrance.
Tiger frightened at hearing unknown wind.
The bear trainer and his bear.
Wages: as much as he can carry.
Ogre made to believe hero has withstood fire.
Giant persuaded that hero has pushed hole in wall with bare hand.
Dog pretends to be calling dog in the moon when he barks.
Troll bluffed away from christening.
Bluff: hero professes to be able to perform much larger task than that assigned.
Felling the whole forest.
Bluff: told to bring home a tree, hero prepares to bring home six.
A thousand at one shot.
Bluff: told to bring home an ox, hero prepares to bring home ten.
Bringing the whole well.
Bluff: told to bring water in an ox skin, hero prepares to dig a canal.
Wrestler claims to be able even to carry away a mountain.
Hero threatens to pull the lake together with a rope.
Hero threatens to haul away the warehouse with a rope.
Trickster threatens to throw weight into a cloud: ogre intimidated.
Ogre terrified by woman's legs.
Bear frightened away by man threatening to cleave its skull with his penis.
Ogre terrified by an iron man.
Bluff: provisions for the swimming match.
Bluff: climbing the mast.
Bluff in court: the stone in the purse.
Trickster's boasting scares his powerful opponent from contest.
False boasting of having killed his foster-brother makes his men follow the boaster.
Goat singing a threatening song bought off with food and jewels.
Bluffing threat.
Sham threat: "In earnest or in jest?" A man asks another who has brushed against him: "Did you do that in earnest or in jest?"--"In
earnest." Sham threat: either .
Sham threat: something he has never done before.
Sham threat: the faked duel.
Sham threat: if I were not a philosopher I should break your head for you.
Girl's sham threat in order to evade husband till lover returns.
Sham threat of war holds ships back so that there suddenly are enough men to man defending ship.
Sham dream prophesying shipwreck makes people leave ship so that there is room enough for man who wants to go.
King menaced into giving his daughter by means of borrowed fleet.
Pretended anger.
King persuades men to follow him, pretending that he is going to make peace with his brothers, instead battle.
Bluff: insult repeated as harmless remark.
Boast where the master cannot hear.
When he is looked at too threateningly hero feigns failing ability to go on horseback.
Threat to build a church in hell.
Bluff: wealth gained by seeming to be in the king's confidence.
Shoemaker offers to trim the peasant's feet to fit the shoes.
Herdsman threatens invasion with enormous herds: bought off.
Trickster falsely reports impending invasion from his own people.
Adventurer on otherworld island sees great hornless oxen guarded by giant: tries to frighten them.
Miracle must wait till one man is sacrificed.
Bluff: the rare vintages.
Man falsely claims to have killed elephant with his flat hand.
Fox threatens to catch bird, who feeds him her young as appeasement.
Sham duel in order to bring about recognition.
Feigned ignorance about person's identity in order to tell one's frank opinion of him.
Feigned ignorance of person's identity in order not to reveal king.
Feigned ignorance about the whereabouts of hero's weapons and horse in order to keep him as monk.
Illiterate man pretends to be weeping because he cannot make others understand the book he is reading.
Woman frightens robber away by telling him parrot's cry is husband's voice.
Disguise by putting on clothes (carrying accoutrements) of certain person.
Fool wears king's crown.
Lover disguised in slain enemy's clothes.
Taking king's place by changing dresses.
Dog procures disguise from magician to frighten tiger.
Lover disguised as other knight in order to reach sweetheart.
Gods (saints) in disguise visit mortals.
Mortal entertained by disguised god.
Goddess in disguise visits earth and is waylaid by thieves.
Gods (spirits) disguised as beggars.
Deity disguised as old man (woman) visits mortals.
God disguised as doctor cures mortal.
Deity takes form of particular person to visit mortals.
Fate takes form of Brahmin's pupil in order to lure him to his prophesied death.
Angel takes form of certain person.
Deity takes form of animal to visit mortals.
King in disguise.
King disguised beaten by his own men.
Incognito king helped by humble man.
Incognito king is asked by humble man to aid him.
Incognito king joins robbers.
Incognito king joins robbers: to take only six shillings.
Incognito prince joins gamblers.
Prince disguises as another prince to woo princess.
Incognito king is given hospitality by fisherman.
Incognito king in victor's court.
Ruler disguises as goblin to frighten uxorious priest.
King disguises as common soldier and is killed.
Incognito queen (princess).
Queen flees husband's persecution disguised as knight.
Incognito princess travels as bishop (monk).
Disguised queen visits her husband and begets child with him as assigned.
Incognito king rewards farmer for gift.
King disguised as peasant flees battle.
Incognito prince (king) sold into slavery.
Incognito king comes to the aid of an enemy who has refused to vilify him.
Incognito king rewards strangers who treat him as companion.
Lecherous prince disguises as merchant in order to kill his grand-children.
King in disguise of merchant is given hospitality by enemy.
King disguised as own messenger.
King disguised as mountaineer.
King in disguise to spy out his kingdom.
Fallen king in disguise recognized by former ally and helped.
King in disguise as one of his own men rescued in fighting alone against four.
Count in disguise.
Disguised husband visits his wife.
Disguised husband wins his faithless wife's love.
Disguised husband shows his wife that he is not repulsive, as she thinks him.
Disguised husband shows his wife that he is not a good-for-nothing as she thinks him.
Disguised husband spies on his faithless wife.
Woman in disguise wooed by her faithless husband.
Prince disguised as merchant seduces a queen.
Wife substitutes for princess, who has been jailed with husband.
Wife disguised as fakir makes her husband, the king, fulfill her will.
Husband twits wife regarding "bought kiss"; she makes him buy one from her by disguising herself.
Humble disguise.
Disguise with hood dropping low over the face.
Return home in humble disguise.
Pious pilgrim dies unknown in his father's house.
Ugly disguise.
Disguise as menial.
God disguised as menial.
Girl in menial disguise at lover's court.
Menial disguise of princess's lover.
Hero in menial disguise at heroine's wedding.
Scholar disguised as a rustic along road answers questions of school inspector in Greek, Latin, and Hebrew.
Gardener disguise.
Pope disguised as caulker.
Disguise as woodcutter.
Disguise as potter.
Disguise as goose-girl (turkey-girl).
Disguise as tender of birds.
Disguise as herdsman (shepherd, swineherd, etc.) Disguise as porter.
Disguise as stable-boy.
Disguise as peasant.
Wise men disguise as peasants.
Disguise as cobbler (shoemaker).
Nobleman disguises as cobbler to woo woodcutter's daughter.
Disguise as carpenter.
Disguise as smith.
Disguise as slave.
Disguise as wanderer.
Disguise as beggar (pauper).
Disguise as fakir.
Disguise as palmer (pilgrim).
Disguise as harper (minstrel).
Disguise as poet.
Disguise as merchant.
Disguise as peddler.
Queen disguised as peddler.
Queen disguised as peddler sells children poisoned cheese.
Disguise as gypsy.
Disguise as sick man.
Disguise as leper.
Scald-head disguise.
Disguise as madman (fool).
Wise man disguised as buffoon.
Lover approaches mistress disguised as fool.
Sharp man pretends to be stupid so as to be included in plans and conversation of plotters.
Disguise as deformed men to secure entertainment.
Animal feigns lameness.
Deception by pretended faint.
Disguise by changing bodily appearance.
Disguise by dyeing beard.
Disguise by painting body.
Disguise by veiling face.
Veiled adulteress flees with paramour who has enlisted duped husband's aid.
Youths wear false beards (of grass, wool).
Disguise as hairy man by putting on lambskins.
Disguise by dyeing complexion.
Disguise by cutting one eye out.
Beautiful woman in hideous disguise.
Beautiful woman blackens face as disguise.
Disguise by painting body.
Disguise as old man.
Disguise in wooden covering.
Girl in menial disguise at lover's court.
Disguise in bark of birch.
Disguise by cutting off hair.
Animal disguises as human being.
Lion disguised as monk.
Fox disguised as scholar.
Bad breath and forked tongue reveal identity of snake-king in guise of human.
Tiger disguises as human being.
Man disguises as animal.
Man disguises as tortoise.
Man disguised as elephant.
Man disguised as lamb.
Man disguised as bear.
Satan disguised as deer.
Disguise as layman.
Disguise as professional man.
Disguise as doctor.
Lover masks as doctor to reach sweetheart.
Girl disguised as doctor exposes queen's paramour who is masquerading as woman.
Poor girl masks as doctor and is made court physician.
Trickster masks as doctor and punishes his cheaters.
Girl masks as doctor to find departed lover.
Animal disguised as doctor.
Disguise as physician to poison enemies.
Woman masks as lawyer (judge) and frees her husband.
Disguise as barber.
Disguise as hospitaller.
Disguise as soldier.
Disguise as dancer.
Twelve men in disguise as carpenters are engaged to build hall for the king's wedding: they abduct the bride.
Disguise as astrologer.
Disguise as churchman (cleric).
Disguise as monk.
Lover disguised as monk or friar meets sweetheart.
Disguise as ascetic.
Lover masks as anchorite to reach sweetheart.
Disguise as missionary.
Disguise as priest.
Bishop disguised as priest.
Disguise as holy man.
Ogre disguised as holy man.
Barber passes for a brahmin.
Disguise as saint.
Disguise as yogi.
Disguise as deity (or spirit).
Disguise as angel.
Woman disguised as angel of death.
Disguise as goddess.
Service under a false name.
Disguise by changing name.
Shipwrecked men call themselves by false names.
Service in disguise.
Service in disguise in order to seduce king's daughter by putting love charm in her food.
Lover in disguise as duke's son takes service under king with his followers in order to abduct his sister.
Disguise by changing voice.
Disguise as ghost.
Multiple disguise: one person disguising successively seems to be many.
Disguise for spying.
Disguise of man in woman's dress.
Husband disguises as woman to spy on wife.
Boy disguises as woman to embarrass incontinent priest.
Disguised man takes bride's place: deserts, leaving a she-goat in his place for the foolish bridegroom.
Disguise as a weeping woman to attract attention.
Disguise of woman in man's clothes.
Boasting coward exposed by wife who masks as highwayman and robs him.
Woman disguised as pilgrim engages lover in conversation and learns of his faithlessness.
Repentant nurse disguises as hermit.
Girl in man's clothes avenges her father.
Wife disguises as a man and outwits landlord of inn when he tries same trick he has played on her husband to get all of his goods, etc.
Disguise of woman as a soldier.
Virgin living disguised as a man and unrecognized in a monastery becomes abbot (St. Eugenia).
Woman in male disguise made king.
Woman in male disguise made minister.
Disguise as devil.
Tricksters change man's furniture.
Other deceptions by disguise.
Wolf puts flour on his paw to disguise himself.
Girl marries lover who thought her dead.
Monkey dresses in dead mistress's gown; Jester disguises as prince.
Friar disguises as soldier and steals from concubine.
Warriors whitewash weapons thus disguising identity of one of their number who bears white-handled battle-axe.
Disguise as foreign ambassador.
Disguise by carrying false token.
Disguise as drunkard.
Housemaid disguised as minister.
Disguise as older brother to obtain blessing.
Disguise as child (in cradle).
Husband disguised as wife's brother.
Husband and wife disguised as brother and sister.
Disguise as dupe's daughter after having killed her.
The Virgin Mary substitutes for a mortal.
The nun who saw the world (Sister Beatrice).
Virgin substitutes in tournament.
Virgin Mary substitutes for woman whom husband has pledged to the devil.
Living person acts as image of saint.
Man acts as statue of saint in order to enter convent.
Wife deceives husband with substituted bedmate.
Bride has maid sleep in husband's bed to conceal pregnancy.
Wife sends mistress to her husband disguised as herself.
Wife takes mistress's place in husband's bed.
Wife takes mistress's place in husband's bed: husband sends message of death.
Wife takes mistress's place in bed but is deceived in turn.
Wife takes mistress's place in husband's bed.
Wife substitutes for her sodomist husband.
Wife substitutes an old woman for herself in her husband's bed.
Wife has maidservant impersonate her while she goes to her lover.
Husband deceives wife with substituted bedmate.
Husband has his strong servant substitute in bed with strong wife.
Husband has servant substitute in bed.
Substitute bridegroom to save husband from poison maiden.
Groom deceives bride with substituted bedmate and hides self in order to learn the secret she has promised to tell.
Fairy visits queen in her husband's shape and begets son with her.
Substitute in battle.
Warrior deceived into attacking substituted pillar-stone.
King, fearing death at hands of enemy, forces follower to take his place on throne.
Deception by substitution: wife substitutes calf for beggar whom drunken husband wants to catch and abuse.
Deception by substitution of children.
Substitution of children to gain inheritance.
Deceptive report of birth of heir.
Substitute for task.
Impotent husband deceives wife by having a substitute in virility test.
Ruler has favorite perform tasks so that he may himself win a bride.
Substitute on quest.
Substituted letter.
Forged letter: god of death replaced by another.
Sleeping potion substituted for poison.
Substitute sacrifice.
Inferior animals substituted in sacrifice.
Person substitutes for human sacrifice.
Hero substitutes for princess as gift to monster.
Servant impersonates dead master and makes a false testament.
Rascal in dead man's place in bed makes dead man's will.
Younger and preferred brother substituted by mother for elder to deceive father.
Substitute specimen for laboratory test.
Substitute specimen in urinalysis.
Substitute specimen in blood test.
Death feigned in order to be carried.
Hero sewed up in animal hide so as to be carried to height by bird.
Death feigned to meet lover.
Death feigned to learn how soldiers are resuscitated.
False tidings of one's own death in order to be able to leave without notice.
False tidings of another's death in order to secure his bride.
Death feigned to establish reputation of false relic.
Death feigned in order to enter land of dead.
Trickster shams death to get food.
Trickster feigns death and eats the ripe fruit from the tree.
Trickster shams death and eats grave offerings.
Deception by pretending sleep.
Deception by legerdemain.
Deception: climbing silk thread tossed upward in air.
Sham cure by pretended extracting of object from patient's body.
Camouflage.
Army appears like forest.
Reeds make ships appear like island.
Love letter hidden in apple.
Wound masked by other wound in order not to be recognized.
Banners of army appear like flock of many-colored birds.
Clods thrown up by hoofs of horses appear like flock of birds.
Deception by sham blood.
Absent person seems to be present.
Illusory enemies.
Phantom army attacked.
Objects (animals) attacked under the illusion that they are men.
Two soldiers slay each other thinking they are slaying a common enemy.
Slayers magically made to believe stone their enemy.
Comrade slain under the illusion that he is an enemy.
Invisible man eats bread and boy and girl quarrel.
Deception: mirror-reflection convinces dupe he is trickster's captive.
Images set up to resemble watchmen.
Hero wears so many different costumes that he is believed to represent a host.
Illusion of death.
Dead made to appear alive.
Lighted sponge in mouth of dead causes illusory breathing.
Illusions in landscape.
Mirage.
Following luminous tree in the desert.
Mists which lead astray.
Enemies magically caused to lose sight of each other while hunting.
Mock sunrise.
Mock sunrise: person causes cock to crow (simulates cock crow).
Mock sunrise: dupe made to believe that flaunted bare buttocks are the rising sun.
Mock sunrise causes supernaturals (thieves) to drop burdens and flee.
Travelers mistake brushwood at a distance for a ship.
Companions separated by illusory city.
Illusory shapes of animals made to appear on hilltops.
Illusory mountain (hill).
Tuatha Dй Danann cause island to appear to be 
"hog's back".
Illusory sounds.
Echo answers.
Deceptive nocturnal noise.
Fairies cause sound to appear to come from various directions.
(Saint's) bell heard but never found.
Illusory light.
Other illusions.
House seems to be afire.
Deceptive cure by illusion.
False Paradise.
Injurious food (drink) has delusive sweet taste.
Illusory night (darkness).
Palace appears to be floating on water--actually glass.
Deception by hiding.
Trickster hides in bag in order to be carried.
Trickster hides in box in order to be carried.
Trickster hides in basket and is carried.
Girl hides lover under clothing upon which she sits.
False proof: cloak dipped into water used as evidence of stormy weather.
The false bride (substituted bride).
Circumstances of substitution of false bride.
False bride takes true bride's place on the way to the wedding.
False bride takes true bride's place when child is born.
False bride takes true bride's place at fountain.
False bride finishes true bride's task and supplants her.
Old woman substituted for bride in bridegroom's bed.
Man palms off elder daughter as younger on wedding night.
She-bear as false bride.
Ghost-ogress pushes bride into hole in tree and takes her place.
False bride steals true bride's garments in bath.
False bride makes child cry and demand mother's clothes and ornaments.
Prince substitutes peasant girl for the king's daughter he has got for his father but with whom he himself has fallen in love.
Impostor kills fairy, hides body and dresses in fairy's clothes.
Treacherous disposal of true bride by false.
True bride transformed by false.
True bride pushed into water by false.
True bride lives in fish's belly.
True bride sits spinning at the bottom of river.
True bride's children thrown away at birth (by false bride).
Reinstatement of true bride.
Substitution of false bride revealed by animal.
Substitution of false bride revealed by true bride in her animal form.
True bride takes house near husband.
False bride fails when husband tests her.
False bride's mutilated feet.
False bride fails when magician tests her.
True bride reincarnated as reed reveals truth.
True bride reinstated by acting as mysterious housekeeper.
Snake adopts true bride thrown into well.
Man in woman's clothing poses as bride for beggar.
Penniless bride pretends to wealth.
The false virgin.
Abductor pretends to have been sent to fetch princess by lover.
The false bridegroom (substitute bridegroom).
Monk becomes husband to girl at night, so that his friend may have dowry.
Through power of saint, man is caused to assume lover's form and sleep with princess.
Handsome man substituted for ugly as bridegroom: wins bride.
Robber bridegroom.
Penniless bridegroom pretends to wealth.
Penniless wooer: patch of land.
Penniless wooer: money in hand.
Penniless wooer: helpful animal reports master wealthy and thus wins girl for him.
Penniless wooer.
Man wins girl's love by pretending to wealth and nobility.
Forged credentials used to win girl.
"All of these are mine," Slave poses as treasurer's son and carries letter
purporting to ask for hand of merchant's daughter in marriage.
Monster disguises and wins girl.
Ugly fish borrows skin of handsome fish for courtship and marriage.
Ogre imposes on widow by assuming form of dead husband.
Marital impostors--miscellaneous.
Husband poses as wife's brother.
Parents exchange children.
Son of the king and of the smith exchanged.
Two mothers exchange their children, a boy and a girl.
Queen changes her own ugly twins for slave's pretty son.
Woman substitutes child for her own and sells it.
The false heir.
Nurse exchanges children so that the preferred child will be assured of wealth.
Man is made to believe that his married daughter has borne a child.
Barren woman pretends to bear child.
Woman pretends to be mother of child chosen to be king.
Midwife takes child and substitutes it for king's stillborn child.
Queen passes off girl-child as boy by having pandits say raja must not see his son for twelve years.
Barren wife makes child by magic and claims it as her own.
False daughter: accepted as one's resurrected child.
Impostors abandon (or kill) their companion and usurp his place.
Impostors throw hero overboard into sea.
Impostor tries to push foster brother into the water and then cuts rope so that he drifts alone out on the sea in boat without oars.
Impostors abandon hero in lower world.
Impostors kill hero.
Impostors throw hero into pit.
Impostors throw hero into prison.
Impostor leaves hero alone on island.
Impostor abandons hero on high hill.
Impostors claim reward (prize) earned by hero.
Impostor forces oath of secrecy.
Impostor forces hero (heroine) to change places with him (her).
Impostor (magician, demon) takes the place of the king.
Impostors steal rescued princess.
Impostors exposed by girl at her wedding.
Impostor claims to be father of princess's child.
Impostor impersonates dead count.
Rascal pretends to be dead man's heir and receives money.
Disguised flayer.
Disguised flayer tightens skin to look beautiful.
Impostors tricked into carrying hero in box.
Impostor demands box in name of king.
Imposition by sham sickness.
Person pretends sickness can be cured only with death (humiliation) of another.
Mother-in-law's head is shaven, face blackened and she is led around city on ass-back as only cure for malady of daughter-in-law.
Sham warrior.
Boastful fly-killer: "seven at a blow".
Boastful elephant killer: killed at one blow.
Runaway cavalry-hero.
Runaway cavalry hero tears out limbs of dead trees.
Sham-warrior intimidates soldiers with his boasting.
Sham-warrior boasts and is employed at palace.
Tiger intimidated by boasting of the sham-warrior.
Boastful coward frightened by conspirators.
Ordinary man assumes high sounding name and challenges enemy chief to single combat.
Sham prince (nobleman).
Brahmin takes shape of a prince.
Servant takes prince's horse and clothes and passes self off as prince.
Poor boy said by helpful cat to be dispossessed prince.
Poor boy said by helpful animal to be dispossessed prince (wealthy man) who has lost clothes while swimming (in shipwreck).
Better things at home.
Brothers pose as princes, deeming their parentage not worthy of their merit.
Impostor claims to be earl's son in exile.
Adventurer poses as son of dead king.
Wooing emissary poses as king and suitor, but is refused.
Impostor appears with letter authorizing that he be set on the throne.
Thieves set up poor weaver as prince and thus get possession of tribute and gifts.
Sham brave man.
Coward boasts that he has frightened bear away.
Sham rich man.
Helpful cat borrows measure for his master's money.
Drunken man by pretending to want to buy an elephant makes king think him rich.
Sham physician.
Sham physician cures people by threatening them with death.
Man undertakes to cure fat abbot of stomach ailment.
Patients frightened from hospital by harsh treatment.
Sham physician pretends to diagnose entirely from urinalysis.
Pepper as universal remedy of sham doctor: accidentally works.
Sham physician predicts the sex of the unborn child.
Sham physician: using the flea powder.
Sham physician: making the girl grow up.
The sham physician and the devil in partnership.
Cheat: demon kills people so his pupil can resuscitate them and get reward.
Sham physician refuses to take his own medicine: unmasked.
Sham physician gives relative a medical degree.
Ignorant youth buys a medical degree.
Ignorant doctor draws his prescriptions by lot.
Sham physician hands out prescriptions haphazard.
Sham wise man.
Sham wise man gives a purgative and helps find a lost horse.
Sham wise man claims to find stolen goods by incantation.
Sham wise man hides something and is rewarded for finding it.
Sham wise man sees jewel hidden and is rewarded for finding it.
Sham wise man declares who committed the theft: robbers.
Sham wise man does not know where his own house is.
Sham wise man stays alone feigning study.
Sham wise man (girl's confederate) interprets pretended dream for girl.
Sham wise man pretends knowledge from dream: really overheard conversation.
Sham wise man burns house where he pretends to keep his marvelous books, and is free from being called again.
Sham wise man accidentally predicts weather correctly.
Boy, posing as magician, agitates purported all-knowing pig's head in front of his enemies, identifying them as dishonest men.
Sham teacher.
Sham churchman.
Sham parson (priest).
Peasant as priest preaches on the troubles of laymen.
Sham parson repeats same expression over and over or says a few words of Latin.
Parody sermon.
Sham parson: the sawed pulpit.
Sham priest dupes man into believing he can discover treasure.
Sham holy man.
Jackal as sham saint.
Pretender as pope.
Woman in disguise becomes pope.
Devil disguised as monk.
Sham bishop.
Sham abbot.
False prophet.
Mohammed puts seed in his ears and when doves trained to feed there come, he tells people that they bring messages from God.
Sham magician.
False magician exposed by clever girl.
Sham magician promises to induce love by magic.
Master posing as magician plays tricks on his servant.
Sham magician belches fire to frighten dupes.
Trickster impersonates necromancer to seduce latter's wife.
Sham magician makes wife believe that he (she) can be transported by demons.
Sham astrologer.
Sham crystal-gazer.
Alchemist.
Alchemist steals money from corpse and claims he has made the silver.
Alchemist secures payment for his "secret".
Juggler promises to fly from one house to another.
Sham prowess in hunting (fishing).
Bought game (fish) used to prove prowess in hunting (fishing).
Sham prowess--miscellaneous.
Sham traveler.
Warrior buries oversized armor so as to convince posterity of soldiers' gigantic size.
Servant poses as master.
Impostors: servant enters dead body of master and takes his place.
Sham deity.
Weaver poses as deity.
Man behind statue (tree) speaks and pretends to be God (spirit).
Husband answers behind the statue when wife wants to know how to fool him.
Trickster hides in hollow tree and eats food he has persuaded his wife to bring to feed a bird.
Man behind the tree threatens his debtor.
Boy behind the tree tells woman about the bad food he gets.
Maid behind statue of Virgin advises the mistress to give the servants better food.
Husband behind saint's statue advises wife to spin.
Wife behind tree advises husband against having his wife work.
Husband as God behind the tree forces his wife to confess adultery.
Man as God behind the tree forces the girl to admit having an illegitimate child.
Girl behind the tree advises the unwilling suitor.
Wife behind tree advises the husband about his marital duties.
The man behind the crucifix says "Good Evening" to the drunk man, who thinks Christ is speaking to him.
Hidden man behind image gives unwelcome answer to suppliant: image blamed.
Sexton behind crucifix tells old maid she will have no husband;
Sexton behind statue tells old maid praying for a husband to raise her foot to her neck.
Trickster concealed in sacred tree advises that he is to marry the princess.
Trickster in tree advises that tree and fruit belong to him.
Impostor acting as God in tree suspected and tree burned.
Alleged idol promises teacher certain payment for his book when finished.
Man hidden behind idol in temple tells robbers they will have good booty but should leave half of it in the temple.
Oracular images occupied by spirits or priests who give the answers.
Statue made to raise its arm.
Sham miracle.
Jackal inside carcass of bullock makes people think his voice is God's.
Living man at the grave pretends to be dead man speaking.
Sham miracle: may the grass grow up! Tricksters who have done no mowing say to their master when he angers them, "May the grass grow up
again!" He finds it is full height.
Sham miracle: wallet (bee-hive) changes to wasps.
Sham miracle: rupees turn to ashes.
Sham miracle: may the food turn raw.
False miraculous relic.
Two friars take arm from corpse and allege it is a miracle-producing relic.
Deception by playing deaf and dumb.
Trickster feigns deafness and gets hospitality from miser.
Ubiquitous beggar.
Trickster poses as helper and eats women's stored provisions.
Girls keep up appearances to deceive suitors as to their desirability.
The lisping sisters.
The girl who ate so little.
Girl claims to have overeaten on a nightingale's thigh.
The girl with the ugly name.
Ugly women complain of falling flowers.
Blind fiancйe betrays self.
Rearing the large-headed and large-eyed bird.
Devil disguised as candidate for confirmation.
Devil disguised as man goes to church.
Brother (sister) secures blessing due to another.
Impostor: one sister borrows another's clothes and gets religious blessing in her place.
Hare (jackal) makes horns of wax and poses as horned animal.
Devil tries to pass for Jesus.
Wise man sent by king to rival to give him interested advice.
Man pretends friendship but attacks king to avenge violation of his wife.
Friendship feigned to avenge murder.
Wolves sign false truce with sheep.
Wolf poses as "grandmother" and kills child.
Wolf poses as mother and kills child.
Ogre father poses as mother and kills child.
Bogey imitates mother and kills child.
Hyena poses as father and kills child.
Leopard poses as brother and kills child.
Tiger-ogress pretends to be girls' mother: explains tail as boil.
False friend causes man to eject his wife.
Enemy invited for marriage with relative attacked.
Enemy invited to meeting and attacked.
Women pretend to weep over warrior's wounds while attempting to inflame them.
King has wounded ally attended by leeches, but bribes them to introduce beetles, awns of barley, etc. into the wounds.
Child adopted by rich man in order to get rid of him.
Betrayal by a kiss.
The bitten cheek.
Man pretends to kiss relative: bites him instead.
Man embraces other to see if he carries gold in his girdle.
Unsuccessful suitor pretends friendship with woman's husband.
Badgers treacherously slain in violation of pledge given by prince.
Crow accepts owl's hospitality then burns owls to death.
Fox confesses to cock, then eats him.
Dog alternately bites and caresses hares.
Dog at his master's table is friendly to guest.
Magpie leads other magpies into his master's net.
Trickster makes basket for his partner tiger to carry meat, but does not sever bamboo from roots.
Same reward promised to many helpers.
King's daughter secretly pledged to many to win their aid.
Supernatural personages seen in dreams advise opposing kings how each can overcome the other.
Helper steals object obtained at end of quest.
Jackal persuades deer to steal from farmer, then informs farmer who catches deer.
Double dealing physician.
Double dealing physician hired to poison his master who has sent him to poison enemy.
Crow gets to owls pretending crows have cast him out.
When wolf pretends to slander tiger fox agrees; Adulteress feigns unusual sensitiveness.
Adulteress pretends shame before male statue (mirror, male fish).
Adulteress pretends to faint when her husband strikes her with a rose.
Adulteress feigns great disdain of men; Women adorn their heads, though they are immoral below.
The oversensitive bride.
The bride's (wife's) false modesty.
Girl who is frightened by love becomes insatiable.
Oversensitive bride pleads a headache (or other excuse).
The oversensitive or hypocritical widow.
Doctor prescribes sexual intimacy for widow's ills.
Wanted: a husband to manage estate.
Overlooking the insult.
Pretended honesty to mulct victim.
Boy pretends to take long trip in order to pay debt of a penny.
Fox confesses sins but is immediately ready to steal again.
The wolf in the company of saints.
Hypocritical stepmother weeps as she tells departing husband she will take good care of stepchildren though they beat her (she beats
them instead).
Hypocrite refuses gifts orally but stretches out his hands.
Pretended piety.
Apparently pious man (sadhu) a thief.
False ascetic in partnership with tiger shares his prey.
Treacherous plan of hypocritical animal detected and prevented.
Wolf offers to act as shepherd: plan detected.
Wolf proposes abolition of dog guards for sheep: plan detected.
Fox feigns to be playing with sheep: dog drives him off.
Dog caresses sick sheep: shepherd knows that he hopes for sheep's death.
Wolf tries to entice goat down from high place: plan detected.
Famished wolf asks sheep to bring him water: plan detected.
Wolf offers to act as midwife for sow: plan detected.
Cat offers to act as doctor for cock and hen: plan detected.
Crocodile tells dog to drink in river without fear: plan detected.
Cat hangs on wall pretending to be dead: mice detect plan.
Fox's plan detected by crickets: cricket wings in his excrement.
Jackal as nurse for leopard cubs eats their food.
Thief tries to feed watchdog and stop his mouth: dog detects plan.
"Chaste" woman surprised in adultery.
"Holy" hermit surprised in amorous intrigue.
Appearance of Death exposes hypocrisy.
Woman and sick husband.
Peasant has kind words for daws, but drives them from his seeds.
Illness feigned in order to learn secret.
Illness feigned in order to get better food.
False guardian betrays refuge of fleeing lovers.
Love falsely pledged for wooer's benefit.
Hypocrisy concerning thefts.
Man announces finding lost jewel, but so softly that no one hears.
Hypocrite will not share in stolen chicken--only takes some gravy.
Hypocrisy concerning charity.
Hypocrite breaks vow to give coin in charity.
Thief robs blind miser of his hoard and gives a tenth away in charity in form of a banquet to the poor.
Miser goes to mass before committing usury.
King sends regrets for death of man he has ordered executed.
Falsely accused minister reinstates himself by his cleverness.
Falsely accused hero sent on dangerous mission.
Jewel presented to king brings false accusation of theft.
Calumniated wife.
Man's mistress accuses his wife of having leprosy.
Potiphar's wife.
Telling a story to allay a woman's amorous desires.
Woman makes vain overtures to stepson and falsely accuses him of murder.
Spurned woman accuses man of theft.
Friar refuses to keep promise after enjoying woman and is accused of rape.
Adulteress tricks husband into killing allegedly importunate lover.
Mother falsely accuses son of incest with her.
Girl falsely accuses bishop.
Woman slandered as adulteress (prostitute).
False tokens of woman's unfaithfulness.
Fingers as false token of wife's unfaithfulness.
Leper (beggar) laid in queen's bed.
Man puts donkey's foal under princess's bed-cover and accuses her of lying with it.
Page is duped into hiding under woman's bed (behind curtain).
Maidservant's confederate feigns coming out of woman's bedroom.
False abortion placed in innocent woman's bed.
Man taking refuge in woman's house causes her false accusation.
Villain brings (threatens to bring) naked servant to woman's house.
Other means of incriminating innocent woman.
Handkerchief left in woman's room to cause accusation.
Giving madman food causes woman to be falsely accused.
Princess disguised as man is accused of illicit relations with queen.
Girl disguised as man accused of infidelity.
Rich woman, when her advances are repulsed by an ascetic (really a girl in man's clothes) accuses her of adulterous assault.
Man falsely accused of infidelity.
Animal-birth slander.
Jealous queens tell child-bearing queen to put her head in the hole at the bottom of grain-bin, so that she fails to see what she
delivers.
Animal-descent slander.
Slander: woman has given birth to objects.
Stone substituted for newly-born babies.
Log-birth slander.
Prophecy of ogre-child so that pregnant woman will be killed.
Innocent person accused of murder.
Innocent woman accused of murder.
Innocent woman accused of killing her new-born children.
Innocent woman accused of eating her new-born children.
Bones of puppies as false evidence of wife's having eaten her new-born child.
Queen falsely accused of having poisoned husband.
Girl falsely accused of murdering her lover.
Incognito queen falsely accused of having killed child left in her care.
Man falsely accused of murder.
Anchorite falsely accused of murder.
Man accused of having starved woman to death and taken treasure.
Person wounds self and accuses another of attempting murder.
Murderer makes outcry so that innocent person is accused of murder.
Warrior falsely accused of having killed his sleeping adversary.
Calumniated wife: substituted letter (falsified message).
Husband's letter ordering the calumniated wife to be treated well is altered into an order of execution.
Man slandered as having deflowered princess.
Brother accused of paternity of mystically impregnated sister.
King's faithful servant falsely accused of familiarity with queen.
Innocent woman accused of using witchcraft.
Woman slandered as an ogress.
Slander: woman said to be possessed of demons.
Girl reported possessed of demon: suitors frightened away.
Knight falsely accused of sedition.
King's advisor falsely accused of treason.
King's man falsely accused of being in the secret service of another king.
False accusation of theft.
Desiring woman they quarrel over, man accuses group of men of having abducted his wife.
False queen puts horseflesh in bed of one with child so as to identify her as horse-eating thief.
Slander: prince is bastard.
Slanders--miscellaneous.
Jealous monk falsely accuses novice of laziness.
Sick crew accused of being magicians so that nobody wants to have anything to do with them.
Stepsisters scatter sugar in girl's litter so that flies congregate;
Family is accused of stinginess by recipients of their hospitality.
Trickster makes two friends each suspicious of the other's intentions.
Cat brings suspicion between eagle and sow.
Envious jackal makes lion suspicious of his friend, the bull.
Woman destroys men's friendship by pretending to whisper to one.
Trickster fills supposed treasure box with trash.
Treasure-animal introduced into family's flock in order to stir up dissension and enmity.
False message of love carried to hero and maiden by troublemaker.
Servant lays skin of dead dog in the bed of his mistress and master.
The complaint about bad breath: trouble for the king's favorite.
Officers praised in reverse from their real merit: trouble for them and their master.
The priest's guest and the eaten chickens.
Trouble-maker in night-lodging.
Jealous courtiers shake king lion's confidence in his councillor, the virtuous jackal, by accusing the jackal of stealing the lion's
food.
Two persons separately informed about each other's death.
The corpse handed around.
Live man thought to be returning corpse pleads with trickster to save him.
Unresponsive corpse.
Dead dog set up so that woman knocks it over.
Legs of a corpse cause accusation of murder.
Trickster wounds self and accuses others.
Animal nurse wounds self so as to throw blame for eaten young on other animal.
Evidence of crime left so that dupe is blamed.
Blood smeared on innocent person brings accusation of murder.
Bloody knife left in innocent person's bed brings accusation of murder.
Slanderers kill a woman and put her body near Buddha's cell.
Innocent man compelled to write treasonable letter.
Sham blind man throws suspicion on real blind.
The dog receives the blows.
Rats cause cats to be killed.
Grandmother causes grandchildren to be whipped: puts dirt and hairs into cooking pot by stealth and sand in the water they draw.
Treacherous brother.
Treacherous elder brother(s).
Treacherous younger brother(s).
Treacherous brother-in-law.
Treacherous foster brother.
Treacherous stepbrother.
Treacherous sister.
Treacherous sister attempts to poison brother.
Treacherous sister as mistress of robber (giant) plots against brother.
Treacherous queen has her brother killed.
Treacherous stepsisters.
Treacherous sister-in-law.
Treacherous wife.
Matron of Ephesus.
Faithless wife and paramour throw hero overboard.
Love-mad queen pushes her husband into well, as fakir lover directs.
Faithless wife plots with paramour against husband's life.
Faithless wife has husband and children killed so that she can be with paramour.
Faithless wife poisons husband to be with paramour.
Paramour demands that wife bring him her husband's head.
Wife plots to kill her husband, but her paramour answers that he could never touch murderess.
Faithless wife deceives husband while she searches for lover.
Queen in love with own brother kills her husband.
Betrayal of husband's secret by his wife.
Secret of vulnerability disclosed by hero's wife.
Noah's secret betrayed by his wife.
The faithless resuscitated wife.
Faithless wife transforms husband.
Faithless wife betrays husband to her father.
Faithless queen aids lover to dispossess king.
Faithless wife incites sons to make war upon father.
Faithless wife tricks husband into setting lover free.
Treacherous queen tricks king into bestowing kingdom upon her son.
Young queen murders her old husband in order to get a new one.
Queen kills her husband as revenge of his killing of her father and brother.
Queen deceives her husband as revenge for his killing of her lover and brother (Helgi.
Treacherous queen lures her husband into chest and betrays him to hostile king.
Wife betrays husband in revenge for his once having taken a second wife.
Treacherous children.
Treacherous daughter.
Daughter has aged father cremated with dead husband to honor the latter.
Treacherous daughter-in-law.
Treacherous daughter-in-law plots against husband's mother.
Treacherous son: leads revolt against his father to whom he owes all.
Treacherous foster son.
Treacherous uncle.
Treacherous nephew kills good uncle for his money.
Treacherous relatives-in-law.
Treacherous mother-in-law accuses innocent wife.
Treacherous father-in-law.
Jealous rivals prevail on person to break tabu (prohibition).
Treacherous rival lover.
Woman poisons her successful rival.
Treacherous co-wife (concubine).
Treacherous mistress.
Adulteress has lover killed.
Treacherous lover (man).
Treacherous lover betrays woman's love and deserts her.
Treacherous inn-keeper.
Treacherous steward.
Treacherous seneschal.
Treacherous porter.
Treacherous marshall.
Treacherous prince.
Treacherous princess (queen).
Treacherous king.
Treacherous king spies so that he may levy fines.
Treacherous lord.
Treacherous minister.
Treacherous minister's son.
Other treacherous officers and tradesmen.
Treacherous potter.
Treacherous treasurer.
Treacherous goldsmith.
Treacherous merchant.
Treacherous butcher.
Treacherous servant.
Treacherous slave.
Treacherous slave-girl.
Treacherous maidservant.
Treacherous barber.
Treacherous cook.
Treacherous herdsman.
Treacherous swineherd.
Treacherous ox-herd.
Treacherous stable-groom.
Treacherous gardener.
Treacherous peasant.
Other treacherous servants and workmen.
Treacherous woodsman.
Treacherous lamplighter.
Treacherous potter.
Treacherous sailor.
Treacherous dark man.
Treacherous dark woman.
Treacherous negro (Moor).
Treacherous gypsy.
Treacherous charcoal-burner.
Treacherous red knight.
Hunchback villain.
Crippled villain.
One-eyed villain.
Blind villain.
Beardless villain.
Leper as villain.
Treacherous dwarf.
Treacherous bishop.
Treacherous cardinal.
Boniface VIII, when cardinal, impersonates angel and dupes Clement V into abdicating.
Treacherous priest.
Treacherous chaplain.
Treacherous brahmin.
Villain disguised as ascetic or nun.
Ascetic as villain.
Treacherous anchorite.
Sage as villain.
Treacherous beggar.
Treacherous physician.
Treacherous old woman.
Treacherous host.
Treacherous animals.
Treacherous partridge.
Treacherous eagle.
Treacherous cock.
Treacherous lizard.
Treacherous camel.
Treacherous partner.
Treacherous robber-partner.
Treacherous friend.
Man leaves his sweetheart in charge of friend.
Man takes his friend's mistress when the friend is away.
Treacherous counselor.
Other villains and traitors--miscellaneous.
Treacherous astrologer.
Treacherous peoples (tribes).
The single cake.
Oath literally obeyed.
Oath literally obeyed: to tell no Christian.
Saint, when forced to return to his monastery after swearing not to "come with his face before him," comes walking backwards.
Death message softened by equivocations.
One day and one night.
One day and one night: object borrowed for a day and a night retained.
King induced by saint to remit tribute till Luan.
Water-monster allows saint to place cauldron over its head until Luan.
Peasant betrays fox by pointing.
Thieves dig field and drain tank when miser says gold is hidden there.
Deception by equivocation--miscellaneous.
One foot in Ireland, one in Scotland.
Warrior proposes to fight in single combat.
Saint hides fugitive from king underground.
Corpse set up to frighten people.
Man who killed mother uses her corpse to get presents.
Dummy set up as corpse to frighten people.
The three hunchback brothers drowned.
The cowardly duelers.
Fox's tail drops and frightens animals.
He-goat bleats and frightens animals assembled for fight.
Old woman and tiger flee in terror from each other.
Hiding from the strange animal.
Ferocious animal frightened by ass braying.
Devil frightened by threatening to bring mother-in-law.
Wolf-captor scared by fiddle-playing of captive ram, who escapes.
Parson is tricked into giving up his room.
Tiger frightened away from man's tree refuge by man's stick and rope.
Wife, to drive away parasite priest, tells him husband has gone to get drunk and will kill him with rice mortar on his return.
Ogre frightened at rustling.
Tiger frightened at sound of clashing knives: thinks it is leak in house of which he is afraid.
Bear frightened by wife's sneezing.
Wooden image frightens away invaders.
Animals help in military victory.
Sparrows of Cirencester.
Fire tied to foxes' tails: destroys enemy's cities and fields.
Bees thrown into redoubt drive out enemies.
Bees carried in drum attack and defeat attacking army.
Ashes transformed into bees, wasps, scorpions and snakes drive invading army away for hero.
Mice and hogs let loose put elephant cavalry to flight.
Elephant drunk with toddy sent to attack enemy.
Horses frightened by instruments of war are backed into enemy's ranks.
Birds frighten enemy's horses so that they throw their riders down.
Wild horses with bags containing stones tied to their tails, driven into enemy's camp to cause stampede.
Horse with basket of powdered peppers sent into hostile camp: enemy overcome.
Hot pepper mixed with flour supplying enemy camp.
Wild fawn sent by saint into hostile army, so that all follow it and leader (enemy of saint) is slain.
Strategy to get into enemy city: huge rat makes a burrow.
Women spread shawls on enemy's path and entangle them.
Fresh hides spread so that enemy slips and falls.
Treasure cast down crushes besiegers.
Treacherous priests prolong mass to let enemy destroy city.
Women throw ashes in eyes of attacking soldiers, so that they are defeated.
Man blinded by throwing dust in his eyes: he is robbed.
Disguise to enter enemy's camp (castle).
Disguise to spy on enemy.
Owner admitted into his own castle, captured in his absence, in guise of a monk.
Disguise as musician to enter enemy's camp.
Disguise as pilgrim to enter enemy's camp (castle).
Disguise as old man to enter enemies' camp.
Rabbi feigns death to be carried out of the besieged city and to approach enemy.
Weapons disguised permit entry to enemies' camp.
Woman disguises as man to enter enemy's camp.
Disguise in killed enemy's clothes to enter enemy's castle.
Disguise as woman to enter enemy's camp (castle).
Disguise as beggar (pauper) to enter enemy's camp (castle) or to spy.
Disguise as merchant to enter enemy's castle.
Disguise as leper to enter enemy's camp.
Disguise as carpenter (tradesman) to enter enemy's camp.
Disguise as juggler to enter enemy's camp.
Disguise as churl (bachlach) to enter enemy's hall.
Capture by hiding warriors in baskets on back of oxen driven into enemy's camp on pretence that food is being brought.
Man disguised as animal sent among enemy that first blood be spilled by other side.
Woman saves herself from soldiers by receiving them joyfully rather than fearfully.
Capture of castle by feigning death.
Spies' false report of enemies' weakness brings on premature attack.
Enemy's ships fired by use of fireship.
Enemies defeated by setting forest afire.
Enemy induced to give up siege.
Enemy induced to give up siege by pretending to have plenty of food.
Enemy induced to surrender city by show of wealth on part of besiegers, who shoot golden apples over walls.
Enemy soldiers persuaded by show of great wealth and generosity of king to desert to his side.
City is falsely promised to enemy.
Trickster admits defeat: enemy and friends invited to fort for ceremony and then attacked.
Besieger scatters beads in protecting hedge: besieged destroy hedge to find beads.
Enemy deceived into overestimating opponents: retreat.
Sound of artillery is simulated to overawe enemy.
Persons run wagon back and forth over a corduroy bridge to simulate sound of artillery.
Sounds of mock battle scare away attacking force.
Sounds of battle in playhouse scare away attacking soldiers.
Sham doctor prescribes medicine for king's army; Enemy induced to give up siege by making it look as if the
besieged have got reinforcement.
Military strategy--miscellaneous.
Marauder pretends beggary that king will underestimate his power.
Division of warriors hidden in pit on battlefield.
Largest part of fleet does not emerge until late in battle.
Treacherous king participates in battle only when he sees who is likely to win.
Treacherous ruler of city under siege sends sons to deliver city to enemy.
Postponing of payment asked in order to get time to gather reinforcements.
Besiegers drowned by diversion of river.
Military strategy: city won by turning river from its course through city.
Shammed discussing of peace while getting reinforcements.
Cauldron containing lighted torch brought into enemy's camp ostensibly to be used for serving food: torch uncovered as signal for attack.
Fairy mist mistaken for smoke of enemy's burning ships.
Hero causes confusion in enemy camp in dead of night: army men fall upon one another, convinced the enemy has infiltrated their camp.
Poisoned food sent to enemy camp.
Enemy leaders invited to banquet and poisoned.
Brambles heaped in ford to halt enemies.
Deceiving the higher powers (God, the saints, the gods, fate).
Heaven entered by a trick.
Heaven entered by trick: permission to pick up cap.
Heaven entered by trick: demanding back the charity gift.
Heaven entered by trick: "wishing sack" thrown in.
Heaven entered by trick: sitting on Peter's chair.
Heaven entered by trick: slipping in along with holy person.
Heaven entered by trick: angel tricked by drink into telling woman how to enter.
Gods tricked into help in escaping one's fate.
Ingeniously worded boon asked of God combines riches, issue, and restoration of eyesight: "Oh God! I want to see from above the
seventh story of my mansion my great-grandsons playing in the streets and eating their cakes from golden vessels."
Dog sent ahead so as to avoid seeing husband transformed.
Enemies reconciled by gifts which the one's son tells are sent from the other.
The returned box on the ears.
Entering a garden by swimming down a stream that flows into it.
Temporary advantage gained by pretending to yield in a combat.
Person allowed to win first game so that he will play for higher stakes.
Warrior consents to flee for the sake of future victory.
Enemies deceived through shammed flight.
Ammunition saved till enemy has used his.
Hero sleeps during the first part of battle and emerges only later.
Ruler diverts attention from misgovernment by beginning a war.
One animal injures another by deception.
Bird plucks another bird's feathers out.
Dwarf-deer pastes other animal's eyes shut and pretends that hunters are coming.
Tying cat to balky horse's tail to make him move.
Man tricked to be one's sworn brother in order to secure his help against his mother.
Demon enters person and refuses to leave until wishes have been fulfilled.
Attempt to kill by throwing knife.
A Classification of Narrative Elements in Folktales, Ballads, Myths, Fables, Mediaeval Romances,
Exempla, Fabliaux, Jest-Books, and Local Legends
Indiana University ISBN 0-253-33885-9
5 89 complete set ISBN 0-253-33887-5
Name of victorious youngest son.
"Thirteen" as name of victorious youngest son.
Abused son of younger co-wife becomes hero.
Fortunate youngest son.
Seal of humiliation put by youngest brother-in-law on the back of his rivals.
Favorite youngest son.
Compassionate youngest son.
Youngest wife's son restores eyesight to blinded six wives of raja and reinstates his mother.
Stupid youngest son becomes clever.
Youngest brother helps elder.
Only the youngest brother helps his sister perform dangerous task.
Younger brother given birthright of elder.
Favorite youngest daughter.
Abused youngest daughter.
Compassionate youngest daughter.
Kind and unkind.
Youngest daughter agrees to marry a monster; later the sisters are jealous.
Stepdaughter heroine.
Abused stepdaughter.
Clever youngest daughter.
Youngest daughter suspects impostor.
Youngest daughter avoids seducer.
Only the youngest of group of imprisoned women refuses to eat her newborn child.
Youngest animal in group overcomes adversary.
Unpromising hero (male Cinderella).
Unpromising hero: aged man.
Unpromising heroine.
Unpromising hero given great powers by deity.
Hero (heroine) of unpromising origin.
Exile returns and succeeds.
Banished youth becomes mighty king.
Fugitive bull-calf returns when grown and defeats his father.
Foundling hero.
Future hero found in boat (basket, bushes).
Future heroine found in hollow tree (calfshed, house "without door but only window and skylight").
Future hero found on shore.
Future hero found on top of a tree.
Future hero found in wolf den.
Heroine found in harp.
Widow's son as hero.
Orphan hero.
Orphan hero lives with grandmother.
Orphan heroine.
Orphan brothers as heroes.
Mistreated orphan hero.
Bastard hero.
Anchorite's son as hero.
Future hero (heroine) raised by animal.
Heroes sons of wife not favorite of king.
Heroine daughter of wife not favorite of king.
Hero of story neglected grandson of raja.
Unpromising fourth son succeeds.
Hero (heroine) of unpromising appearance.
Monster as hero.
Loathly man father of supernaturally born boy.
Very small hero.
Deformed child as hero.
Hero with deformed head.
Dirty boy as hero.
"Burnt-belly" as hero.
"Scar-face" as hero.
Skin-sore as hero.
Leper hero.
Lame child as hero.
Ugly child becomes great poet.
One-armed hero.
Heroine born with pigeon's head.
Hero (heroine) of unpromising occupation.
Menial hero.
Heroine endures hardships with menial husband.
Swineherd as hero.
Stable-boy as hero.
Mad fisherman as hero.
Shepherd as hero.
Goatherd as hero.
Cowherd hero.
Cowherd's daughter (foster child) as heroine.
Slave as hero.
Menial heroine.
Heroine has been goatherd.
Poor weaver as hero.
Peasant as hero.
Woodcutter hero.
Smith as hero.
Quack-doctor as hero.
Barber becomes king.
Tailor as hero.
Flute player as hero.
Hero (heroine) of unpromising habits.
Lazy hero.
Spendthrift hero.
Unruly hero.
Cheater as hero.
Hero with disgusting habits.
Successful foolish son.
Insane hero (heroine).
Stupid hero.
Half-wit successful.
Unsophisticated hero.
Pauper hero.
Penniless hero.
Dumb hero.
Child silent till seventh year.
Famous poet does not speak until he is fourteen (four, seven) years old.
Silent hero.
Hearth abode of unpromising hero (heroine).
Ashes abode of unpromising hero.
Pig-sty abode for unpromising hero (heroine).
Unpromising son leaves his home and goes into the world.
Unpromising hero must live in hut.
Stupid person surpasses clever.
The stupid monk recovers the stolen flocks.
Simpleton's naive answer to robbers makes them think he knows their secret.
Hero stupid at games but fleet of foot.
Inept child eventually surpasses others.
Pupil surpasses master.
Pupil surpasses thieves in stealing.
Pupil surpasses magician.
Son surpasses father in skill.
Poor man surpasses rich.
Poor girl chosen as wife in preference to rich.
Poor suitor makes good husband; rich suitor cruel.
Ignorant surpasses learned man.
Ignorant steward straightens his master's accounts.
Farmer surpasses astronomer and doctor in predicting weather and choosing food.
Ugly preferred to pretty sister.
Ugly sister helps pretty one.
Neglected surpasses favorite child.
Ape tries to flee with favorite child; neglected child saves himself.
Tardy surpasses punctual.
Tardy bird alone succeeds at bird convocation.
Slowness surpasses haste.
If you hasten you will not get there.
Peasant girl outwits prince.
Daughter succeeds on quest where son fails.
Scorning stops when it turns out that the scorned has saved the king by fighting alone against four.
Disagreeable and disliked child surpasses the likeable one.
Unpromising hero kills those who scorn him.
Lowly hero overcomes proud rivals.
Lowly hero marries princess.
Marriage of poor boy and rich girl.
Fool wins beautiful woman as wife.
Mercenary soldier (exile) accepted lover of princess.
Lowly heroine marries prince (king).
Lowly boy becomes king.
Lowly successful hero invites king and humbles him.
Lowly successful soldier invites general and humbles him.
Despised boy wins race.
Despised boy wins gambling game.
Modest choice: three caskets type.
Choice among several gifts.
Saint, offered any gift from God, chooses (virginity and) wisdom.
Solomon, offered any gift from God, chooses wisdom.
Hero prefers fame to long life.
"Fame (honor) is more enduring than life." Modest choice proves good (simple unique privilege).
Poor girl chosen rather than the rich.
Modest choice best: wife chosen from crowd of women--only one poorly dressed.
Choice of ugliest girl as bride.
Old chosen rather than new.
Unpromising magic object chosen.
Poor game proves rich.
Accustomed rags preferred to new garments.
Former poverty chosen over new riches.
Modest request: present from the journey.
Present from the journey: what you first see.
Modest choice: parting gift.
Choice: a big piece of cake with my curse or a small piece with my blessing.
Modest choice for parting gift--money or counsels.
Modest parting gift best--meat or bones.
Modest choice for parting gift: when offered money man takes magic stick.
Modest choice of parting gift: magic iron measure chosen.
Hero refuses reward.
Beggar with small bag surpasses the one with the large.
Prosperity forever or for a day? King asks prince whether he has secret of prosperity forever or a day.
Hermes distributes wit.
Weak (small) hero overcomes large fighter.
Sick hero overcomes antagonist.
Poorly-armed hero overcomes well-armed by strategy.
Poor prince overcomes king.
Little innocent girl is able to drive giant out of land.
Small boy overcomes enraged gorilla.
Little strong man defeats giant in race.
Small animal overcomes large.
Bird flies into large animal's ear and kills him.
Mouse runs into buffalo's ear and overcomes him.
Mouse torments bull who cannot catch him.
Fox burns tree in which eagle has nest.
Mother ape burns bear.
Lark causes elephant to fall over precipice.
Elephant killed by mouse who runs up open end of trunk to head and there smears poison over his brain.
Insects worry large animal to despair or death.
Dungbeetle keeps destroying eagle's eggs.
Fish pricks monster with fins and defeats him.
Falcon attacks eagle repeatedly and defeats him.
Mice overcome camel.
Lizard defeats leopard.
Rabbit slays rhinoceros.
Hedgehog defeats tiger by jumping into tiger's mouth and tormenting him.
Ants overcome serpent.
Small animals dupe larger into trap.
Offended rats gnaw saddle girths of king's horses so that he is defeated in battle.
Mice win war with woodcutters.
Little fishes escape from the net.
Mice escape into their holes; weasels cannot follow them.
Hummingbird can see fowler's net; eagle is caught in spite of his boasts of good eyesight.
Mildness triumphs over violence: queen advises husband to use kindness to enemies.
Saint uses kind words to pagan priest who has just smitten a Christian.
Contest of wind and sun.
Contest between wind (rain) and sun.
Sun cursed by man for its burning rays, wind for its hot breath, but moon is blessed for its soft, cool, and beautiful light.
Mild brother triumphs over warlike.
Priest who gives mild penances succeeds where others fail.
Goldsmith gives money to one who addressed him as friend (the goldsmith had no friends because he has cheated everybody.)
Needle kills an elk.
Reed pricks and drives away dog that urinates on it.
Mouse stronger than wall, wind, mountain.
Mosquitoes sting King Pharaoh and show they are stronger than the man who cannot escape them.
Only love to offer.
Slow flying swan lasts longer than speedy crow in flying.
Frog, tortoise, fish each tell of how long they expect to live.
Proud king humbled: realizes that pomp, possessions, power are all of short duration.
King, defeated in battle, obliged to flee without money.
Boasting king insulted by crow dropping filth on him.
Defeated king must be peddler or beggar.
King overthrown and made servant.
Ruler enslaved.
Queen forced to become a courtesan.
Proud king displaced by angel.
Rich man made poor to punish pride.
Woman casts ring into sea boasting that it is as impossible for her to become poor as for the ring to be found.
Proud inscriptions sole remains of powerful king.
King vainly forbids tide to rise.
King vainly attempts to measure the height of the sky and the depth of the sea.
God punishes David for his pride in the number of his subjects.
King commanded to wear enemy's shoes on his shoulders as sign of submission.
Proud king humbled when imprisoned by enemies.
God finds that his statue sells at low price.
King shown he is less powerful than God.
Proud ruler (deity) humbled--miscellaneous.
Goose boasts superiority to mushroom.
King (prince) becomes beggar.
Overweening ambition punished.
Attempt to fly to heaven punished.
Attempt to climb to heaven punished.
Peter acts as God for a day: tires of bargain.
Man who has never known unhappiness or want is swallowed up by earth with all his household.
Dream (prophecy) of future greatness causes banishment (imprisonment).
Poor man aspires to high office: made a cook.
Arrogant mistress repaid in kind by her lover.
Haughty mistress makes extravagant demands of lover: repaid.
Scorned lover poses as rich man and cheats his scornful mistress.
Sneering princess is impregnated by magic.
Impoverished husband begs from wife's new husband.
Cruel brothers brought to beg charity from abused sister.
Impoverished father begs from daughter he has banished: recognized.
Impoverished father begs from his prosperous daughter whom he has made to marry a poor man.
Impoverished husband begs from wife he has formerly expelled.
Impoverished youngest brother comes to elders in search of work.
Arrogant farmer allows none to ride his precious horse without permission.
Self-righteousness punished.
Self-righteous hermit must do penance.
Self-righteous monk rebuked by abbot.
Self-righteous woman punished.
Woman with three hundred sixty-five children.
Self-righteous tailor in heaven expelled.
The beggar on the cross in place of Christ.
Wild animal finds his liberty better than tame animal's ease.
Tame bird and wild bird.
Wild ass envies tame ass until he sees his burdens.
Wolf prefers liberty and hunger to dog's servitude and plenty.
Parrot prefers cold wet nest in freedom to luxury in royal palace.
Ass is jealous of the horse until he learns better.
Ass jealous of horse, but sees horse later working in a mill.
Ass jealous of war-horse until he sees him wounded.
Mule carrying corn escapes while one carrying gold is robbed.
Lean dogs envy arena-dog his fatness.
Calf pities draft ox: is taken to slaughter, ox spared.
Stag scorns his legs but is proud of his horns.
Fox destroys nest of bird who boasts of nest's warmth.
The mule's double ancestry.
The man scorns the storm: killed by it.
Zeus smites Capaneus while he is climbing a ladder.
Pride or wealth of man brought low by actions of gods.
Oil lamp blown out: had thought that it outshone stars.
Jackal singing about his deeds falls down from tree and is eaten by alligator.
Gnats having overcome lion are in turn killed by spider.
Men too prosperous (happy): things are made more difficult.
Men are too rich: greedy gods created to impoverish them.
Men are too rich: gold sent below ground.
Men are too rich: weeds created to spoil their harvests.
Men are too proud: snakes created.
Men are fearless: tiger made to frighten them.
Men enjoy themselves too much: disease created.
Senseless judicial decisions.
Inhuman decisions of king.
Inhuman decision of king: sends man's sons to certain death and then murders man.
Deity settles disputes between races.
Irrevocable judgment causes judge to suffer first.
Irrevocable sentence carried out even when innocence is proved.
Sentence applied to king's own son. Those caught in adultery are to have eyes put out.
Ruler has son beheaded for rape.
Captain hangs own son for violating order not to enter enemy city.
Gardener made king by minister decides against him in law case and returns lands to plaintiff.
Irrevocable judgment of king upheld.
King Lear judgment.
Decree that hero must wed only a virgin.
Judgment: pardon given if hero produces the lady about whom he has boasted.
Judgment: thief to be pardoned if he can steal king's treasure without being caught.
Virgin Mary reverses judgments of church.
Decision left to first person to arrive.
Deity grants woman two sons, one to be wise and ugly and the other a fool and handsome.
Punishment for broken oaths.
False swearer not allowed to approach altar.
Broken oaths cause of maimed people.
Death as punishment for broken oath.
Death caused by elements (exposure, drowning, etc.) as punishment for broken oath.
Man offers to sacrifice bangles if he is given a son; when he takes bangles back, son dies.
Broken oath causes girl's hand to wither.
Punishment for broken oath: loss of the inheritance of earth or heaven.
Equivocal oaths.
Escape from vengeance caused by broken oaths.
Vow fulfilled in next existence.
Violators of oaths.
Babylonians do not keep their oaths.
Swearing while one knows that his oath is rendered valueless.
Oath is valid only when decreed in presence of ten.
Oath uttered by pious when in danger of succumbing to temptation.
Oaths taken over severed pieces of horse.
Oath taken on ring.
Oath taken on arms.
Oath taken on sword.
Oath taken on sacred object.
Oath on sacred book.
Oath by Tora.
Oath taken on holy stone.
Vows taken on holy swine.
Swearing on sacred relics.
Taking oath on cowdung.
Oath by touching sacred thread.
Only one oath binding.
Three-fold oath.
Oath so heavy it dries up stream; oath so great it splits the rock in twain; oath so violent it makes the tree wither.
Oath taken on hand of saint.
Swearing on hand of king.
Swearing by saint's bachall.
Swearing by saint's bell.
Vow to perform certain act unless cataclysm occurs.
Swearing on a skull.
Taking of vows and oaths--miscellaneous.
Swearing by the elements: sun, moon, stars, wind.
Oath by River Styx.
Swearing by (clan) gods.
Vows taken as an old Norse custom at the festival of Yule.
Vows taken by placing one's foot on a certain post in the hall.
Swearing on a stone.
Swearing by "the Seven Things which they serve." Oath by placing hand on genitals.
Oath taken by the life of a person.
Swearing by one's father and mother.
Swearing by life of father.
Vow not to shave or cut hair until a certain time.
Vow: woman not to bind hair till enemy is conquered.
Vow not to change clothes till a certain time.
Vow not to wash till a certain time.
Vow of chastity.
Vow of virginity.
Vow: man will love only a virgin.
Prince vows to marry no woman unless he can beat her daily.
Vow never to remarry.
Vow not to marry till iron shoes wear out.
Vow never to be jealous of one's wife.
Woman requires husband free from jealousy.
Vow to marry first person performing certain act.
Vow to marry off two daughters to first two men father looks at on the following morning.
Vow never to strive against a woman.
Vow never to carry a woman.
Vow to wed no man who cannot perform certain feat.
Vow to wed no man who fears to saddle and mount a lion.
Vow to marry a certain woman.
Vow to marry queen of fairies and not to eat or drink inside kingdom until this is done.
Boy vows to marry none but girl born under the same circumstances as he.
Vow that magically conceived children shall marry (or be friends).
Brother and sister arrange marriage of their unborn children to each other.
Vow to marry none but daughter of certain man.
Vow of enemy chief to marry princess of besieged city.
Vows concerning sex--miscellaneous.
Lovers vow to marry only each other.
Vow to die rather than marry unwelcome suitor.
Vow to kill more successful rival.
Quarreling prince and princess vow that if they are married he will desert her on the wedding day and she will make him eat boiled rice and
thin broth for six months.
Oath to marry daughters only into family with bridegroom for each daughter.
Vow to get stubborn girl half-married only.
Vow only to marry daughter to the man who kills snake by her house.
Vow not to eat before hearing of adventure.
Vow not to eat before learning secret.
Vow not to marry until quest is concluded.
Vow not to reign and to starve to death unless picture's original is found.
Vow not to take food or drink until manner of father's death is learned.
Vow not to take food or drink until enemy is killed.
Vow not to eat or sleep until certain event is brought to pass.
Vow not to eat, drink, or move from position until dead anchorite comes himself to accept necklace.
Vow not to eat or drink before knowing if king is alive.
Heroine will not laugh till arrival of destined hero.
Vow not to eat until lost son is found.
Vow not to see friends until quest is completed.
Vow not to go to bed with wife till enemy is killed.
Vow not to kiss anybody until father is revenged.
Vow not to sit on father's high-seat until he is revenged.
Vow to perform act of prowess.
Vow to kill wild boar alone at night.
Vow to find vanished sister.
Vow never to flee from fire or weapon.
Vow to watch at frightful place all night.
Vow to ride the forest all night and slay all comers.
Vow never to refuse food to any man.
Vow never to flee in fear of death.
Vow to attack (kill) the enemy or die.
Vow to revenge (king, friends, father) or die.
Vow to live and die with the king.
Vow rather to die (on a spear) than to accept grace.
Rather die than go in the enemy's service.
Rather die in battle than in bed.
Vow not to be killed by a single opponent.
Vow never to make a nocturnal assault.
Bard vows that none of his profession will make a request of any man.
Vow to ask nobody for peace, grace.
Other vows about fighting.
Vow never to give more than one blow in a fight and never to beat a fallen enemy nor take his weapons.
Vow rather to be cut in pieces than permit oneself to be bound.
Vow to kill anyone who touches his beard.
Vow: never to fight with brother.
Oath not to fight relatives of king.
Vow to serve only the most generous of all kings.
Vow not to devastate country or take revenge after release.
Vow not to deceive the man who spared one's life.
Vow never to accept a man who does not know any sport.
Vow not to touch certain thing.
Vow never to touch money and to give what anyone begs for.
Vow not to touch certain tree.
Pledge to say but a single phrase.
Vow to change religion.
Vow to become a Christian.
King swears to become Christian if he wins battle.
Oath not to be christened until he has fought in seven battles for Jesus.
Prince vows that he will always be servant of a goddess (Kali).
Vow not to enter any house before reaching one's own.
Religious vows.
Vow to build shrine.
Vow to bathe in the Ganges.
Vow to find Holy Grail before returning to Round Table.
Vow to become monk should he escape execution.
Vow if queen bears another girl she and child will both be killed.
Vow that no daughter born to chief's wife will be allowed to live until she bears a son.
Vow to abide by laws.
Vow never to pass over demarcation line into other's property.
Oath to abide by results of lot drawing.
Oath not to mention what has been seen.
Vow to put to death every king that comes his way unless engaged in marrying a lady at the time he sees them.
Vow to destroy kingdom by austerities.
Making of bargains and promises.
Bargain with God (by holy man).
Covenant between Israel and God.
Covenant between heathen and Israelites.
Blood covenant.
Blood of contractors mixed to seal bargain.
Pact with devil signed in blood.
Covenant confirmed by eating together.
Spitting of all parties into vessel to seal bargain.
Covenant between saints confirmed by cutting off their thumbs.
Covenant confirmed by marriage.
Covenant confirmed by hostages.
Fulfilling of bargain or promise.
Bargain or promise to be fulfilled at all hazards.
Promise to be fulfilled when iron shoes wear out.
Prisoner would be set free only after he has used up a pair of harmed shoes.
Man keeps word to return to enemy if his mission to his people fails.
King's promise irrevocable.
King punishes one of his men who robs someone to whom the king has given safe conduct.
King kills self to carry out own promise.
King sells self and family into slavery to keep promise.
Demanding of promised boon postponed.
Demanding of promised boon postponed until an auspicious moment.
Breaking of bargains or promises.
Promise kept in deed but not in spirit.
Animal punishes broken promise.
Turtle carrying man through water upsets him because of a broken promise.
Fish (whale) carrying man through water shakes him off when man strikes him with coconut.
Cat witness to betrothal punishes violator.
Curse as punishment for broken promise.
A man who breaks his oath to a woman cannot be king with right.
King breaks promise to care for man's family.
Promise made merely as a matter of form not binding.
Host offers to send his guest a cask of the wine he has praised.
Land grants (bargains).
Price set on one's head.
Man sells soul to devil.
Man unwittingly sells soul to devil.
Man goes to well at midnight on Old Christmas to see water turned into wine.
Man sells soul to devil in return for devil's building house (barn, etc.).
Man bequeaths soul to devil.
Jews must repay devil's help by giving tribute of persons each year.
Formulas for selling one's soul to Man sells soul to devil for visit home in boat that sails
through sky.
Man sells soul to devil for magic power to escape capture.
Man sells soul to devil for devil's doing one specific job.
Person sells soul to devil in return for the granting of wishes.
Devil agrees to help man with robberies.
Devil as helper of robber refuses to let women's ornaments be stolen.
Devil at gallows repudiates his bargain with robber.
Devil as substitute for day laborer at mowing.
Devil to help gambler in exchange for one task yearly.
With his whole heart: devil carries off judge.
Devil bargains to help man become priest.
The devil helps man study for priesthood.
The devil makes the herdsman's son a priest in return for a whistle.
Devil bargains to help man win woman.
Servant makes pact with devil denying Christ to secure nobleman's daughter.
Contract with the devil destroyed.
Pacts with the devil, sealed in blood, made ineffective by a saint.
Other devil contract motifs.
Bargain with the devil for an heir.
Devil fetches man contracted to him.
Devil appears in great storm, takes away soul of person contracted to him.
Devil flays corpse of person contracted to him.
Man contracted to the devil responds to call by voice: "The hour has come but not the man."
Devil carries off hunt-loving priest.
Body of devil's disciple is removed from coffin by devil.
Devil puts body of convert on a sea monster which takes it away.
Familiars guard and protect those who have pact with the devil.
Familiar devours whoever does not keep pact with devil.
Beheading bargain.
Hag offers to run race with men on condition that the one left behind shall be beheaded.
Man umpires dispute in exchange for guarantee of safety.
Blind promise (rash boon).
Person who never refuses a request.
Eyes exchanged for food.
Horse, clothes, and members of rider's body exchanged for food.
In return for magic shirt from girl hero is to stay in Ireland for three years.
Free keep in inn exchanged for good story.
Prince to give up life in exchange for learning a secret.
Three deformed witches invited to wedding in exchange for help.
Life spared in return for life-long service.
Life spared in return for poetic mead.
Life spared for bringing a dreaded enemy without weapon.
Life bought for gold.
Life bought with promise of reparations and healing of enemy.
Bargain: woman rides naked through streets to obtain freedom for citizens.
Peace bought for husband.
Bargain to save face.
Opponents agree not to fight and are thus undefeated.
Bargain: to divide all winnings.
Dividing the winnings: half of the bride demanded.
Dividing the winnings: presents (favors) from man's own wife.
Bargains and promises between mortals and supernatural beings.
Mortal fosters fairy child to prevent destruction of crops.
Contract between hungry god and untouchable: to give gods food it they will eat from his hands.
Ogre released in return for his magic girdle.
Bargains between men and animals.
Bargain with king of mice.
Captured bird promises to deliver fifteen birds in exchange for freedom.
Covenant of friendship.
Covenant of friendship between animals.
Covenant of friendship between elephant and jackal.
Covenant of friendship between louse and crow.
Covenant of friendship: no matter how poor son of one is, daughter of other will accept him as groom.
Covenant of friendship: to secure brides for each other.
Dying man's promise will be kept.
Promise of dying man to bring news of other world.
Friends in life and death.
Promise to be buried with wife if she dies first.
Deathbed promise concerning the second wife.
Promise to dying man broken.
Sons break promise to have masses for father's soul.
Dying monster's request and promise.
Dying hero's request and promise to disciples.
Murdered person's request and promise.
Promise to dying man sacred.
Promise to dying father leads to adventures.
Promise to dying father not to wed woman of certain tribe.
Promise to dying father to bury him in his homeland.
Chaste woman promises herself to her lover when the rocks leave the coast. (They are moved by magic.)
Chaste woman promises herself to her lover when he can make a garden bloom in winter.
Raja to marry girl when cut mango branch blooms.
Princess promises to embrace her teacher on her wedding day.
Person promises to have but one consort if he is cured.
Retreat in return for cessation of attack.
Man promises to build church if he is saved at sea.
Promise to give another one's wife for a day.
Marriage promised to save life.
Sons agree to meet at father's grave after they have been out in world for one year to learn trade.
Supernatural woman promises to return if she gives birth to a boy.
Trickster undertakes impossible bargains and collects his part.
Wife undertakes man's penances for him: Covenant: one nation not to wrest city from inhabitants
without their consent.
Divine promise not to destroy sinful city if righteous live there.
Bargain to keep secret.
Tiger lets man go on condition he does not tell what he has overheard.
Two men in love agree to have nothing to do with the girl without the other's consent.
Prophecy by Jesus that certain people shall live "till coming of Patrick."
Unconscious prophecy.
Prophetic gift received from another prophet.
Suppression of prophecy.
Prophets.
Prophet destined never to be believed.
Prophet speaks six nights each year.
Wild man as prophet.
Old woman as prophet.
Enraged old woman prophesies for youth.
Old Woman, " vцlva", prophesies at child's
birth.
Druids as prophets.
Prophecies from old man who writes in a book.
Saints (holy men) as prophets.
Anchorite prophesies at childbirth.
Cuchulinn prophesies birth of 50 women.
Fairies as prophets.
Banshees as portents of misfortune.
Biblical worthy as prophet.
Moses as prophet.
David as prophet.
Abraham as prophet. Jewish: *Neuman.
Personification prophesies.
Half-wit as prophet.
Fool (entertainer) as prophet.
Angels as prophets.
Spirit as prophet.
Three fates, "norns", prophesy at child's birth.
Icelandic guardian spirits, " spбdнsar", prophesy victory.
Summoned dead prophesies.
Mountain in human shape prophesies whole family's death.
Gods prophesy both good and evil about hero's fate.
King as prophet.
King in will foretells that daughters of his son shall be fruitful.
Poet as prophet.
Smith as prophet.
Child as prophet.
Sibyl as prophet. Writes on leaves blown about by winds.
Means of prophesying.
Prophesying through knowledge of animal languages.
Man's fate written on his skull.
Fate written on the head.
Man's destiny read in his face.
Descent into hell to learn future.
Horoscope taken by means of stars.
Astrology forbidden.
Tasks assigned so as to learn future.
Prophecy inscribed on well.
Prophecy through dreams.
Prophecy from book.
Prophecy by reading palm.
Prophecy from enigmatical laugh.
Ambiguous oracle.
Enigmatical prophecy.
Enigmatical prophecy: what thou sowest thou shalt not reap, etc.
Two sons: one a purse cutter and the other a killer.
Enigmatical prophecy: princess will wed physician, fisherman and prince all in one.
Enigmatical prophecy: "He that is to kill you shall grow up in Braja (a place).
Enigmatical prophecy: "He who will kill your child is not here, but in the village."
Prophecy: future greatness and fame.
Prophecy: preeminence of man's descendants.
Prophecy of preeminence to descendants of man provided they do the will of saint to be born.
Prophecy: future greatness of unborn child.
Heroic career prophesied for (new-born) child.
Prophecy: birth of hero at certain time (in certain place).
Prophecy: conception of hero at certain time.
Prophecy: child to be born.
Prophecy: child to be born to childless couple.
Prophecy that if raja should take one more queen he will have a son.
Heavenly voices proclaim birth of future child hero.
Prophecy: king's grandson will dethrone him.
Prophecy: child born at certain time will build religious edifice.
Prophecy: unborn child to be a saint.
Prophecy: unborn child to become king.
Unborn child will become nation's deliverer.
Prophecy: unborn child will be prophet.
Prophecy of future greatness for youth.
Dream of future greatness.
Prophecy of future greatness given by animals.
Prophecy of future greatness if boy lives to be eighteen.
Mother's symbolic dream (vision) about the greatness of her unborn child.
The dream about a tree which sprouts enormously, indicates the birth of a hero (saint).
Prophecy: son will tie father to a horse's leg and strike him fifty blows.
Prophecy: wealthy marriage for poor boy.
Prophecy: wealthy marriage for poor girl.
Prophecy: parents will humble themselves before their son.
Prophecy: son to be more powerful than father.
Prophecy: youngest brother to rule over his brethren.
Eater of magic bird-heart will become rich (or king).
Eater of magic fish will have power to spit up treasure.
Whoever eats outside of fruit will become a king and whoever eats the seed will drop gems from his mouth every time he laughs.
Prophecy: superb beauty for girl.
Prophecy: child will build religious edifice.
Prophecy: boys to be fathers of saints.
Prophecy of luck for outcast child.
Prophecy: man will make sun and moon stand still.
Prophecy: no people or king will be able to stand up against hero.
Man transformed into swine will regain his human form after third marriage.
Prophecy: man (child) will become king.
Prophecy: girl will be queen.
Prophecy: son who catches certain fawn will become king.
Prophecy: king will be succeeded by the son whom he shall see next.
Prophecy: younger son will succeed to throne.
Prophecy of future empire for fugitive hero.
Prophecy: man will eat magic salmon and gain knowledge.
Prophecy: strength to be gained when milk is drunk from hero's skull.
Prophecy: race will never be without an illustrious woman.
Prophecy: no snakes in Ireland.
Prophecy: no snakes in Israel.
Prophecy: long life.
Blessing of saint to descend from generation to generation.
Prophecy: person will avenge his own death.
Prophecy: victory against great odds.
Prophecy: future Golden Age.
Prophecy: glory and prosperity for a people.
Prophecy: future success as hunter.
Princess to marry prince.
Prophecy of grief fulfilled by death of relative (friend, etc.).
Forced prophecies are unfavorable.
Prophecy of general misfortune to newborn child.
Bridegroom to meet with disaster if he rides a certain elephant which comes to meet him.
Prediction of danger.
Prophecy of great misfortune.
Death prophesied.
Saint prophesies that certain man will have a warning of coming death.
All forty of man's sons to die at once.
Prophecy of death not to come true if baby is married to girl of twelve years.
Prophecy: death at (before, within) certain time.
Prophecy: death on wedding day.
Prophecy: death within year after marriage.
Prophecy: death on seventh day of marriage.
Prophecy of death upon daughter's marriage.
Prophecy: death on entrance to the marriage chamber.
Prophecy: early death.
Prophecy: death of king (before the morrow).
Prophecy of death on twelfth day after birth.
Prophecy: death within two months.
Prophecy: death in three years and three months.
Prophecy of only seven days' life for baby.
Prophecy: death before certain age.
Prophecy: child shall hang before fifteen years.
Prophecy: death before eighteen years.
Prophecy: death at certain age.
Prophecy: death at sixteen.
Prophecy: danger to threatened newborn boy at his eighteenth year.
Prophecy: death when twenty-five years old.
Prophecy: death on twenty-first birthday.
Prophecy: man shall hang himself when he is thirty years old.
Prophecy: death at sixty.
Prophecy: death within certain period.
Prophecy: death in ten years.
Prophecy that hero will not live another eighteen years.
Prophecy: death after certain time.
Prophecy: death after three life spans.
Prophecy: death after two life spans.
Prophecy: death after three-year dominion.
Prophecy: death at birth of child.
Death at sight of son before twelve years.
Prophecy: death by particular instrument.
Prophecy: death by particular weapon.
Prophecy: death by mistletoe.
Prophecy: death by storm.
Prophecy: death by drowning.
Death by drowning: man strangles to death on drinking water.
Prophecy: three-fold death.
Prophecy: death by horse's head.
Prophecy: death by wolf.
Prophecy: death by fire.
Prophecy: sinners to be burnt by fire on Doomsday.
Prophecy: death by poison.
Prophecy: death from hands of man with one sandal.
Prophecy: death from bite of stone lion.
Prophecy: death by tiger.
Prophecy: death from tiger.
Prophecy: death by lightning.
Prophecy: death through future husband.
Prophecy: death through spindle wound.
Prophecy: death by means of bone.
Prophecy: death at hands of man bearing a certain name.
Prophecy: death from thorns in rice.
Prophecy: king to be slain by certain spear unless it is given when demanded.
Prophecy: death in battle.
Hero kept from going to battle lest he be slain.
Prophecy: death at hands of certain person.
Prophecy: wholesale slaughter to be inflicted by colossal wheel rolling over Europe.
Prophecy: death from snakebite.
Prophecy (through dream): death from cobra.
Prophecy: death by calf.
Prophecy: death by hanging.
Prophecy: death by alligator (crocodile).
Prophecy: man to be swallowed up by earth at the foot of his stairs.
Prophecy: king's son to die for lack of water.
Prophecy: death in particular place.
Prophecy: death in Jerusalem.
Prophecy: death between Erin and Alba.
Prophecy: drowning in particular stream.
Prophecy: death on seashore.
Prophecy: criminal going to death predicts that his judge (king, prince) shall soon meet him.
Prophecy: either youth or mother will die.
Prophecy: person foretells own death.
Prophecy of downfall of kingdom.
Prophecy of downfall of king (prince).
Prophecy: son-to-be to destroy lineage.
Parricide prophecy.
Parricide prophecy: king's successors will be parricides.
Prophecy: mother will be killed by children.
Prophecy: murder by son-in-law.
Prophecy: murder by grandson.
Prophecy: murder by nephew.
Prophecy: wicked couple to be killed by own child.
Prophecy: death at hands of parents.
Mother-incest prophecy.
Father-daughter incest prophecy.
Prophecy: daughter shall commit murder and incest and be sentenced to death.
Prophecy: girl shall have a hundred lovers, shall marry her servant and die from spider's bite.
Prophecy: woman will have many lovers.
Prophecy: man will deceive many women.
Prophecy: child to be abducted at certain time.
Murderer warned by God's voice that murder will be avenged.
Prophecy that youth shall abandon his religion and become Christian.
Prophecy of particular perils to prince on wedding journey.
Prediction by bird that girl will have dead husband.
Prophecy that child will have external soul.
Prophecy of rebirth as monkey.
Prophecy: unborn child to be blind, deformed, sickly, etc.
Prophecies concerning destiny of country.
Prophecies concerning outcome of war.
Prophecy: loss of battle (combat).
Prophecies concerning fate of heroes in battle.
Prophecy: first side to slay in battle will be defeated.
Prophecy: destruction of fortress.
Prophecy of a plague consisting of "a flame of fire" which shall destroy three-fourths of the population of Ireland.
Prophecy: unborn (new-born) child (girl) to bring evil upon land.
Prophecy: evil to come to country.
Prophecy: end of Round Table for Arthur's knights.
Prophecy: world catastrophe.
Prophecy: fiery bolt from a dragon to kill world population.
Prophecies connected with journeys.
Evil predictions concerning journeys.
Prophecy: death on journey.
Journey to otherworld foretold.
Unfavorable prophecies--miscellaneous.
Prophecy: weapons with which man is killed will recount deed to his son.
Prophecy: prince's marriage to common woman.
Prophecy: unborn child to kill enemy in revenge.
Prophecy: torture "with varied tortures." Prophecy: poverty from birth.
Prophecy: all flocks will perish and family die.
Prophecy: rich man will have a son but the son will marry a poor girl.
Deluge prophesied.
Prophecy of famine.
Thievery a predestined lot.
Fated hero.
Prophecy: certain hero to achieve Holy Grail.
Prophecy: death of ruler to insure victory.
Coming of religious leader prophesied.
Coming of Christ (Christianity) prophesied.
Coming of Antichrist prophesied.
Prophecy: coming of Messiah.
Prophecy: woman to be ancestress of David and the Messiah.
Various prophecies connected with saints (or holy men).
Prophecy: saint's monastery will be persecuted.
Prophecy: founding of church at certain place by saint.
Prophecy: remission of tax through endeavor of saint.
Prophecy: saint will succeed in conversion.
Prophecy: sinners going to heaven are to be numbered by hairs in saint's chasuble.
Prophecy: great numbers (three) to be saved through virtue of saint.
Place of saint's resurrection prophesied.
Saint's resurrection to take place where chariot breaks down.
Prophecy: vicinity in which saint lost tooth will be deserted by heathen.
Prophecy: rainbow will appear at saint's death.
Coming (birth) of saint prophesied.
Coming of saint prophesied by druids.
Coming of saint (Christianity) prophesied by heathen.
Bishop foretells birth of saint.
Prophecy: unborn child shall be nun.
Prophecy: miraculous removal of saint's bones.
Saint foretells desecration of his bones.
Hero prophesies that one-half of the churches in Ireland shall be named for Ciaran.
Destruction and rebuilding of church foreseen by saint.
Everyone buried in saint's soil shall go to heaven.
Prophecy: eternal peace in an early death or long troublesome life.
Prophecy: hero may win fame but die early.
Son to be brave and wise but not to remain and cause mother to weep.
Prophecy: girl will be perfect in love but will die in a desert overcome by separation from her love.
Prophecy: hero may win lady's love but die early.
Prophecy: immunity from certain types of death.
Immunity from wet or dry, steel or wood, sword or javelin, by day or by night.
Prophecy: punishment for misappropriation of property.
Miscellaneous prophecies.
Prophecies that person will tell three (two) falsehoods before death.
Prophecies concerning love and marriage.
Future husband (wife) foretold.
Prophecy of king taking a cruel stepmother to her sons after her death enacted before eyes of dying queen by sparrow family living in
tree by palace window.
Prophecy: princess will marry a bastard.
Prophecy: lovers not destined to meet in life will never part after death.
Prophecy: marriage when one is twelve years old.
Prophecy: if the raja marries certain girl he will prosper.
Prophecy: descendant of mistress shall serve that of handmaid.
Prophecy that certain person will fight particular battle.
Names of future kings foretold.
Prophecy that bird will become king.
Prophecies concerning invasion and conquest.
Signs before destruction of Jerusalem.
Time and place of landing of returning heroes prophesied.
Prophecy about birth of children.
Prophecy: birth of twins.
Prophecy about birth of heir.
Prophecy: sex of unborn child.
Prophecies about children born at the same time.
Prophecy: king will have head pounded by strange queen.
Prophecy: boy to be great hunter.
Prophecy of death fulfilled.
Prophecy wittingly fulfilled by wazir that he will murder the raja, but unwittingly causes his own death twelve years hence.
Exposure of infant to avoid fulfillment of prophecy.
Abandonment in forest to avoid fulfillment of prophecy India: *Thompson-Balys.
Father throws boy of boy-girl twin birth into river to avoid evil effects of twin birth.
Exposure (murder) of child to avoid fulfillment of prophecy of future greatness.
Exposure of child to prevent fulfillment of parricide prophecy.
Murder of child to prevent fulfillment of prophecy of ruin she will bring upon kingdom.
Confinement in tower to avoid fulfillment of prophecy.
Confinement in iron house below surface of earth to avoid fulfillment of prophecy.
Expulsion to avoid fulfillment of prophecy.
Slaughter of innocents to avoid fulfillment of prophecy.
All male children killed for fear that they will overcome parent.
Slaughter of children to prevent fulfillment of parricide prophecy.
Child mutilated to avoid fulfillment of prophecy.
Wooers slain to avoid fulfillment of prophecy.
God swallows his pregnant wife to prevent birth of son whom he fears.
Exposure of pregnant woman to avoid fulfillment of prophecy concerning future child.
Murder of pregnant woman to avoid fulfillment of prophecy.
Children swallowed one after the other as they are born for fear one of them will overcome father.
Delivery of child fated to rule retarded in order to avoid fulfillment of prophecy.
Sword that is to kill one is weighted and sunk so as to avoid the prophecy.
Stone that is to kill one powdered and thrown into distant sea.
Man whose death has been prophesied takes refuge in church, but is accidentally slain through window by arrow directed at stag.
Futile moving to avoid death.
Fulfillment of prophecy.
Fulfillment of prophecy successfully avoided.
Prophecy of misfortune for prince avoided successfully in one respect.
Wandering skull fulfills prophecy.
Queen dies from fright from evil prophecy.
Favorable prophecies: blessings, beatitudes.
Child pronounces blessing according to which countries are to be filled with what they are later famous for.
Hero's coming prophesied.
Prophecy: son of certain name will become king; all sons given the name.
Prophecy: meeting will take place only after death.
Prophecy: hunters will encounter certain wild boar.
Futility of weather prophecies.
Cursing match (flyting).
Satire.
Woman satirist.
Woman satirists punished in hell.
No one to go security for a satirist.
Curse of everlasting terror.
Unintentional curse or blessing takes effect.
Deliverer of curse.
Curse by oneself.
Curse by parent.
Curse by stepmother.
Curse by foster mother.
Beggar's curse.
Dying man's curse.
Man pursued by hatred of the gods.
Curse by a god.
Old woman's curse (satire).
Druid's curse.
Druid's curse makes land sterile.
Curse by spirit.
Saint's (prophet's) curse.
Saints curse by ringing bells against offender.
Hermit curses men who kill his pet bear and all the men die.
Curses on places because of offensive answer to saint.
Animals cursed by saint.
Saint curses books hidden by inhospitable host: no man shall read them.
Giantess lays a curse on the one on earth who eventually hears her.
Curse by berserk, giant (ogre).
Curse by girl in revenge of the murdering of her foster father.
Curse by amazon, " skjaldmжr".
Curse by witch.
Curse by thrall.
Curse by priest.
Priest curses sinner: even his grave shall not rest.
Curse by anchorite.
Brahmin's curse.
Curse by monk.
Fairy lays curse on village.
Curse by king.
Curse by poet.
Curse by animal.
Curse by wounded animal.
Ox curses ungrateful man.
Curse by spouse.
Curse by disguised deity.
Curse by head of religious order.
Curse by other wronged man or woman.
Curse on city by sage.
Time of giving curse.
Curse given at birth of child.
Curse given on wedding night.
Place of giving curse.
Curse given from a height.
Recipient of curse.
God cursed.
Goddess cursed.
Saint cursed.
Four year old girl cursed.
King cursed.
Poet cursed.
Hostages cursed.
Animals cursed.
Mice (rats, cats) cursed.
Pigs cursed.
Serpent cursed.
Birds cursed.
Curse on wife's lover.
Thief cursed.
Man who betrays secrets cursed.
Earth cursed.
Curse on a deity.
Curse: god to live life of a cat for twelve full years in house of huntsman on earth.
Irrevocable curse.
Curse given to negate good wish.
Curse: appetite of twelve men.
Curse: eternal life without eternal youth.
Method of cursing.
Curse by "building a fire of stones" in fireplace.
Release from curse with birth of child.
Curse transferred to another person or thing.
Curse removed when victims reform.
Curse changed by God into blessing.
Curse on everybody on earth who listens to the fatal mentioning of trolls' names, is evaded by person in cave, because he is in the
earth.
Curse mitigated by deity when superhuman task is performed.
Miscellaneous ways to overcome curses.
Release from curse by burning vomit.
Release from curse by putting pins around horse's heart and then boiling it.
Release from curse by burning animal in straw pile.
Release from curse by heating the colter of the plow in the stove.
Release from curse by pricking louse and hanging it on wall.
Release from curse by putting a five cent piece in the churn.
Release from curse by putting a piece of silver in the gun.
Curse: bodily injury.
Curse: loss of eye.
Curse: toads from mouth.
Curse: fire to burn hands and feet.
Curse: arm to fall off.
Curse: hand of person cursed to drop off.
Curse: wound not to heal.
Wicked stepmother cursed to have fire lit under her.
Curse: leprosy.
Curse of sterility on wife of enemy.
Curse: head to split in seven pieces.
Curse: to be plagued by nightmares.
Curse: to be carried off by evil spirit.
Endless sleep given Endymion.
Curse: to be swallowed by a siren.
Curse: not to taste food from own table.
Curse: prince to fall in love with witch's daughter.
Curse: monstrous birth.
Curse: "What I carry may you carry; what you carry may I carry."
Jealous sisters curse the child one of them may have by the god Thor, so that it never will grow nor thrive.
Curse: humiliation.
Curse: man (poet) to kiss a leper.
Curse: hero not to be able to stand the sight of blood.
Girl bewitched so that no man will remain faithful to her.
Curse: hero to remain as dead till the curser dies.
Dying father condemns weak son to be servant of his brothers.
Curse: failure in all undertakings.
Curse: man's sword will fail in danger.
Curse: when brothers' swords bite the very best, they will all be killed by a single man.
Curse: deformity.
Curse: descendants to be unshapely.
Curse: she-wolf to carry off man's genitals.
Curse: privation.
Curse: lack of food, shelter, good company.
Curse of childlessness.
Curse laid on unborn child; it is stillborn.
Giant cursed: may neither heaven nor earth receive him.
Curse: undertaking dangerous quest.
Curse: undertaking dangerous revenge of father.
Curse: to sink into the earth.
Curse: ground shall swallow children.
Curse: death.
Death by suicide.
Death by drowning.
Curse: insanity.
Curse: corpse to be put in three different places after person's death.
Curse: change of sex.
Curse: restlessness.
Hero cursed to restlessness (except on boat or in tent), till he sees girl.
Curse: not to be able to love the same woman more than twelve months.
Thrall cursed to sit on chest and yell and never have rest.
Curse: couple to wander until new seat of race is pointed out.
Curse of petrifaction.
Miscellaneous curses on persons.
Curse: woman will not travel far.
Curse: children will be sick.
Curse: descendants of nine robbers never to exceed nine.
Curse on village: descendants never to exceed certain number.
Curse: race to lose sovereignty.
Curse on tribe (district).
Curse of a woman against her caste: they should remain unclothed and untaught.
Curses on animals.
Curse: cow will give red milk.
Curse: milk will not turn to butter.
Cursing to make pigs lean.
Curse: horses will die.
Curse: horse will be lame.
Curse on land.
Curse on a city.
Curse on a city: never to grow.
Curse on river.
Curse on river or sea: no fish in it from that day.
Curse on lake.
Curse on lake: fire from lake will burn the forest around it.
Presence of cursed person brings disaster to land.
Whomsoever demons curse is blessed, and vice versa.
Gamblers.
Gambling caused by possession of men by evil demons.
Hero makes fortune through gambling.
Conquering gambler.
The miracle of broken die at gambling saves man.
Dice made from bones from graveyard.
Betting contest between two kings.
Extraordinary stakes at gambling.
Play for unnamed stakes.
Stakes not claimed by winner, who insists on another game.
Own body as stake: to be taken as slave.
Lives wagered.
Bodily members wagered.
Head wagered.
Hand wagered.
Hands and feet wagered.
Eyes wagered.
Nose wagered.
Intestines wagered.
Helpful animals lost in wager.
Whole kingdom (all property) as wager.
Right of succession to the throne lost in gambling.
Half kingdom as wager.
Wife as wager.
Sister as wager.
Daughter as wager.
Damsel as wager.
Love wagered in game.
Supernatural adversary in gambling (witch or giant).
Gambling with a god.
Devil as gambler.
Devil cheated at card playing.
Devil makes wager with builder of Cologne Cathedral.
Playing game of chance (or skill) with uncanny being.
Card-playing parson.
Luck in gambling.
Luck in gambling from compact with devil.
Cuckold loses luck.
Saint helps gambler.
Trained rat upsets pieces in gambling game: trained (or transformed) cat chases it away.
Gambler's attention distracted by women.
Wagers and gambling--miscellaneous.
Gambler loses everything.
Wager on wife's complacency.
Wager on the most obedient wife.
Wager: raja's daughter will bring servant dinner in field.
Husbands wager that they will be able to do what wives tell them to do.
Chastity wager.
Chastity wager: woman succumbs.
Wager on nun's chastity.
Wagers on unborn children.
Wager on sex of unborn child.
Fathers whose unborn children are affianced wager as to mastery in the house.
Wager on truthfulness of servant.
Wager: who can call three tree names first.
Wager about tree names: learned and common names.
Wager: it is an auspicious day.
Shooting contest on wager.
Loser of shooting wager to go naked into thorns for bird.
Wager: woman to turn somersault in middle of public square.
Wager that falsehood is better than truth.
Wager: more doctors than men of other professions.
Wager: fortune made from capital or from working at vocation.
Wager: woman can be forced to give alms.
Wager: to begin sermon with illustration from card-playing.
Wager on second marvelous object.
Wager: whose hunger is it more difficult to appease--that of man or that of beast? When nuts are strewn before master's well-fed guests,
they snatch and eat them.
Wager: to swallow egg with one gulp.
Wager: bullock to defeat elephant.
Ghoulish wager won.
Purchase of box without knowledge of its contents.
Wager to win or lose according to whether jackal howls or ass brays before game is finished.
Father hides wealth to keep son from gambling it away.
Inexorable fate.
Inexorable fate: no day without sorrow.
Inexorable fate: death from violating tabus.
Man cannot die: snake will not bite him though it is provoked by him.
Man fated to become king becomes so despite fact he breaks his tooth in which his luck resides.
Fortune comes to deserving and undeserving.
Fortuna.
Dwelling place of Fortuna.
Home of Fortuna in other world.
Home of Fortuna on island (in otherworld).
Appearance of Fortuna.
Fortuna blind.
Fortune has one eye, watches over everybody.
Fortuna with two faces.
Fortuna half white, half black.
Fortune's wheel. **Patch Fortuna 147ff.
Fortune's wheel turned by dead king in mountain.
Fortune with pair of scales in his hands weighs man's balance.
Fortune's dealings with men.
Man thanks earth for saving his life; had he fallen into well he would have blamed Fortune.
Giant is clerk to God of Destiny and measures out mortals' spans of existence.
Bad luck personified.
Bad luck put into a sack.
Good luck personified.
Good fortune resides in an object.
Casket with Good Luck in it given to men by Zeus.
Personification of Good Luck lives in man's forehead.
Lucky right hand.
Man's luck resides in his tooth.
Personification of Good Luck leaves palace since king is destined to die that night.
Luck can be found in certain place.
Fortune as an old woman.
Book of fate.
Issues left to fate (luck).
Ship's course left to the winds that it might be carried where fate wills it.
Luck and fate personified--miscellaneous.
Dog tries to catch its fate in its own tail.
Buffalo's fate in bamboo growing from head.
Ill-omened face of king; harbinger of evil. India: Thompson-Balys.
Fate decided before birth.
Child born with objects that indicate fate.
Spirit of new-born child in uniform.
New-born child with a weapon and a game animal: fated to be hunter.
Death forestalls evil fates.
Newborn girl fated to be a courtesan.
Seventh daughter predestined to be magician.
Lucky or unlucky places.
The choice of roads.
Unlucky places.
Choices by chance.
He upon whom feather (wisp) falls to be king's fool.
Luck determined by whether a crooked-necked demigod is looking at one.
King to be victorious as long as he rides muzzled gelding.
Districts named from first person met in each.
Lots cast to determine luck or fate.
Lots cast to determine who shall undertake adventure.
Lots cast to determine father of illegitimate child.
The auspicious (lucky) day (days).
Different kinds of luck attending persons born on the several days of the week.
Tuesday as auspicious day.
Wednesday as auspicious (inauspicious) day.
Thursday as lucky day.
Friday as auspicious day.
Unlucky days ("cross-days").
Days of the week on which certain tragic deaths occurred.
National disasters occur always at the same date.
Monday and Wednesday as unlucky days.
Acts performed for changing luck.
Luck changing after cohabitation.
Turning right-handwise in certain place brings luck.
Spilling salt brings bad luck.
Judas Iscariot spills salt at the Last Supper.
Luck changing after change of name.
Luck changing after change of place.
Persons effect change of luck.
Persons bring bad luck.
Unlucky to have man in house while cloth is being dyed.
Wife brings bad luck to the husband's family.
Persons lose luck as punishment.
Spirit of adversity brings bad luck to house.
Passenger brings bad luck to ship.
Objects effect change of luck.
Thirteen as unlucky number.
Possession of money brings luck.
Discovery of treasure brings luck.
The luck-bringing shirt.
Feast for those who have not known sorrow.
Lucky marks on body.
The judge's bad-luck bringing boots.
Philosopher conquers evil fate.
Luck or intelligence? Dispute as to which is the more powerful.
Which is more important, learning or wit? Which is more powerful, wealth or wisdom?
Which is more beautiful, nymph of Luck or of Ill-Luck (Luck when coming, Ill-Luck when going).
Weaver married by Wealth to a princess to show Wisdom that he is the more powerful.
Destiny better than work, show, or speculation.
Luck only with money that is earned honestly.
Cast-out princess prospers because of Good Luck.
Man not fated to die cannot be killed.
Unprotected son makes fortune; protected son has bad luck.
Prodigal as favorite of fortune.
Prodigal son favored over faithful son.
Disagreeable and disliked youth as favorite of Fortune.
Careful builder outside when storm comes is killed; careless builder saved.
Beggar escapes from fire.
Loss of eye saves man from execution.
Broken leg saves man from fatal fight.
Man chosen for execution because he is fat.
King's counselor expelled from a court thereby escapes accompanying the king, who is killed by robbers.
Only crippled cow not driven away by robbers.
Fortunes of the rich man and of the poor man.
Snake turns to gold in answer to dream.
Money lost twice: recovered third time.
Fugitive woman burdened with child saved; childless woman killed.
Man who derided another's faith in the stars becomes respected astrologer.
Hero fails to meet the man he seeks, though they are close to one another.
Wish for exalted husband realized.
Wishes for good fortune realized.
Wish realized that all women should fall in love with man at sight.
Lucky person.
Lost object returns to its owner.
Lost ring found in fish.
Lost articles found in interior of fish through virtue of saint.
Lost pin found in fish.
Key (to fetters) found in fish.
Lost sword found in fish.
Lost trinket found in fish.
Brooch lost by saint found in fish.
Unavailing attempt to get rid of slippers; they always return.
Angel helps to find lost pin.
Money cannot be kept from where it is destined to go.
Husband's magic gift returns to him.
Man fated to be rich.
Child borne off by tiger, which is caught by griffin, which is killed by lioness, which rears child with her whelps.
Man granted power of winning at cards.
First objects picked up bring fortune.
Man must have drinking horn; stumble reveals one as he departs on search.
Man finds treasure he refused as gift.
Man robbed and penniless entertained by wealthy widow and enriched.
Wrecked man saved on coffer of jewels; becomes rich.
Man who is impoverished is given high post by princess in disguise.
Leopard tied in bag in water floats to shore and finds a mate.
The fourteen lucky daughters.
Boast of poor boy made good by fate: Bad luck follows man who shoots stork.
Persecution by bad luck.
Persecution by a god so that will of deity can be followed.
Bad luck banished and freed.
Person pursued by misfortune.
Man captured by pirates is maimed, crippled, blinded.
Man who aspires to greater wealth loses all.
Man who loses fortune marries widow of his rich master.
Travelers pursued by misfortune.
Fortune of the lucky wife.
The luckless son and his envious father.
Misfortune pursues farmer.
Messengers announce successive misfortunes.
Messengers announce successive misfortunes to warrior as he sets out for war.
Safety in shadow of wall.
Escape from one misfortune into worse.
Stag escapes from hunters to be eaten by lion.
Ass gets progressively worse masters.
Halcyon builds nest on sea-cliff to escape land hazards.
Fugitive slave takes refuge in mill house, where he must work harder than ever.
Daw fleeing from captivity caught in trees by thread around foot.
Old man burns self with gunpowder, and then burns himself worse when he pours hot water over his body.
Unlucky classes.
Goldsmith unlucky.
Train of troubles from lost horseshoe nail.
Train of troubles from sparrow's vengeance.
Train of troubles for seven brothers for having destroyed bird's nest.
Whether man begs all day or for an hour he gets only a small basket of grain.
Person brings bad luck to others.
Girl brings ill luck and death to everyone she comes in contact with.
Murder will out.
The sun brings all to light.
Moon brings murder to light.
Murder revealed by unusual names of boys.
The Cranes of Ibycus.
Ravens pursue murderer who has killed two children.
Murder discovered through knowledge of bird languages.
Murderer through miracle suspected of theft; murder thus discovered.
Murder revealed by child.
Child's song reveals murder.
Murder discovered on digging foundations of house.
Murderer traced through victim's ring.
Tree follows murderer.
Ship will sink if murderer is aboard.
Murder will out: murderers quarrel under influence of drink and reveal crime.
Criminal confesses because he thinks himself accused.
Criminal confesses because of misunderstood animal cries.
Criminal confesses because of misunderstanding of a dialect.
Detection by accidental remark.
Thief imagines that group of people in street are talking and laughing at him; he confesses.
Criminal in church mistakes words of service as accusation.
Sheep thief confesses when preacher says, "All we like sheep have gone astray."
Oxen bear dead usurer to gallows to be buried.
Supernatural voice points out criminal.
Separation of persons caused by looking for water.
Separation of twins through being carried off by beast.
Child follows bird and loses its mother.
Persons fall asleep on rock, which magically shoots upward.
Separation by being on different banks of stream.
Separation in jungle (forest).
Separation of family by shipwreck.
Accidental separation of lovers.
Man, thinking it an enemy, flees as sweetheart comes after him in pursuit.
Princess accidentally elopes with wrong man.
Man unwittingly causes death of daughter.
Son returning home after long absence unwittingly killed by parents.
Eavesdropping person unwittingly killed.
Eavesdropping man in disguise as devil killed unwittingly by daughter's lover.
Eavesdropping wife hidden in bushes killed unwittingly by husband.
Parricide prophecy unwittingly fulfilled.
Man unwittingly kills prince.
Transformed prince unwittingly killed.
Unwitting murder because of insane illusion.
Man kills son thinking that he is cutting a branch.
Women, driven mad, devour their infants' flesh.
Mother kills son thinking him a wild beast.
Things accidentally fall and kill person.
Dagger in wall above bed falls and kills girl.
Knife accidentally strikes girl's throat and kills her.
Prince's arrow accidentally grazes breast of merchant's wife.
Bride lets dagger fall and kill husband.
Bread accidentally dropped from tree on bear's nose kills bear.
Man hidden in tree so frightened of lioness he drops his sword and kills her.
Accidental poisoning.
Man accidentally fed bread which his father has poisoned.
Poisoned bath prepared for another accidentally used by hero.
Horse accidentally poisoned instead of master.
Elephant on rampage accidentally poisoned instead of man.
Serpent carried by bird lets poison drop into milk and poisons drinkers.
Head of killed snake bites and kills king.
Snake in jug bites would-be thief.
Boy accidentally drinks "poison" intended for his stepbrother.
Youth accidentally takes the poison he intended for his father.
Woman unwittingly poisons her son.
Man eats food which is mysteriously poisoned.
Hidden fruit accidentally poisoned by snake.
Aiming at fly has fatal results.
Person killed by hitting fly on his face.
To give child a slap to stop its crying, numskull kills it.
Man accidentally killed by bear trying to chase away flies.
Accidental fatal ending of game or joke.
Children play hog-killing: one killed.
Hanging in game or jest accidentally proves fatal.
Practical joker asks doctor to castrate him.
Unexpected death at hands of an animal.
Bird hunter killed by adder just as he is shooting bird.
Blood bath causes woman to be carried off by bird.
Sick queen lying under red satin carried off by bird who thinks it is red meat.
Death by rebounding bow.
Accidental death from flying splinter of bone.
Hound strikes unique vulnerable spot.
Series of accidental animal killings.
Attacking animal is killed by another in ambush.
Tortoise lands on elephant's back so that elephant's back is broken.
Accidental death through dream.
Accidental death through misdirected weapon.
Blind poet unintentionally kills friend.
Hero, while measuring wild boar, accidentally wounded mortally by bristle.
Axe thrown at one animal misses but kills another.
Death as result of mistaken identity: wrong person killed.
Saint changes places with charioteer; latter is killed.
Fool (person) disguised as (supposed) king killed.
Son killed because mistaken for someone else.
Father orders unrecognized son thrown into sea.
Accidental death--miscellaneous.
Man falls into jar of honey and is drowned.
Flies caught in honey.
Foxes crowd into house and are suffocated.
Groom killed by lightning on wedding night.
Uxorious king is burned to death while taking an alcohol bath.
Man forgets to wear magic gown and is killed.
Army drowned by unnoticed incoming tide.
Accidental death from fall on own weapon (shield).
Accidental death of father from fall into the fire when taking down weapons for his son.
Girl abducted by fairy left on shore, where she is accidentally drowned.
Youth gazing at own image reflected in water falls and drowns.
Girl lets down her sari for hero to climb up by but, when he is halfway up, sari breaks and he is killed.
Prefect, cursed by bishop, dies of fish-bone stuck in his throat.
Accidental death by striking head against lintel of door.
Wife throwing husband's corpse into river (according to custom) is caught by corpse's arm and drowned.
Thief crushed to death by fallen fragments of wall he has bored.
King mortally wounded on killed enemy's tooth.
Bottle wherein jinn is imprisoned inadvertently opened and jinn escapes to kill his captor.
Suicide in remorse over hasty condemnation.
King hastily has 7,000 people put to death for stoning his judges to death.
Woman wrongly condemned for drunkenness when seen to take one drink.
Misunderstood message causes messenger to be killed (accused).
Hasty condemnation of man who accidentally becomes suspected of crime.
Faithful servant guarding master's wife from danger falsely condemned for betraying his master.
Faithful son guarding his father from monster falsely accused by stepmother.
Stumbling over bloody corpse brings accusation of murder.
Jealous and overhasty man kills his rescuing twin brother.
False accusation overheard causes hasty killing.
Angry brother kills husband, thinking latter had killed wife (sister) and baby.
Woman mistakenly accused of cannibalism.
Lover kills self believing his mistress dead.
Mistress kills self, believing her lover dead.
Wife dies, believing husband dead.
Woman feigns death to meet exiled lover.
Lover commits suicide on finding beloved dead.
Father kills self believing that son is dead.
Wrong sign put out leads to boys' leaving home.
Father causes death of innocent son, believing him guilty of adultery with father's wife.
The falcon of Sir Federigo.
Pigeon hastily kills his mate for stealing wheat.
Innocent man accidentally suspected of crime.
Clerk who enters tavern arrested with others for murder.
Saint who entered house of ill fame to reform inmates accused of going with evil intent.
Boy is hanged for cattle theft; the strayed cattle are discovered later.
Man having purchased stolen ornament unwittingly presents it to owner as gift; is thrown into jail as thief.
Poor man presented rich robe by emperor is locked up as a thief.
Man falsely accused commits suicide.
Greedy disciple decides to remain in city despite learned teacher's warning and is condemned to take the place of a thief.
Jealous husband kills innocent wife.
Hasty killing or condemnation--miscellaneous.
Warriors erroneously slay allies in night battle.
Father kills his son in battle rage.
King, seeing eldest son leaving room, decides that he is a rakshasa.
Money (treasure) unwittingly given away.
Boy's servant takes pearl to his wife instead of to merchant; she throws it away.
Beggar accidentally overlooks money put into his way.
Bird carries off ring which lover has taken from sleeping mistress's finger.
Bird carries off jeweled veil with which girl had covered sleeping lover's face.
Jewel (garment) carried off by bird from bather.
Serpent steals jewels: person falsely accused of theft.
Sacred animal unwittingly killed.
Brahmin unwittingly kills calf.
King (prince) unwittingly killed.
Incest unwittingly committed.
Boy unwittingly commits incest with his mother.
Man unwittingly falls in love with his own mother.
Unwitting father-daughter incest.
Father unwittingly falls in love with daughter.
Unwitting brother-sister incest.
Brother and sister unwittingly in love with each other.
Boy says, "Whoever eats this mushroom is my wife." Man unwittingly lies with mother-in-law.
Daughter unwittingly turns her own parents out of doors.
Drop of honey causes chain of accidents.
Ant pinching frog causes chain of accidents.
Fugitive slave takes wrong road and is caught.
Man falls dead from sudden realization.
Man falls dead when he realizes that he has been riding over frozen sea.
Man falls dead when he realizes that he has eaten bread from flour used for abscess plaster.
Mother dies of fright when she learns that she was about to commit incest with her son.
Death from fright.
Madness from fright.
The cadaver arm.
Mouse frightens man to death.
Death in the graveyard; person's clothing is caught; the person thinks something awful is holding him; he dies of fright.
Wicked stepmother falls into the fire because of fright.
Fraternity initiate dies of fright.
Queen dies from fright because of evil prophecy.
Sham magician causes simpleton's death.
Sham execution proves fatal.
Priest frightens boy by tying girl's corpse to bell-rope.
Lover frightens mistress as a joke.
Man playing ghost killed.
Joker playing dead killed.
Woman playing dead to spy on husband killed.
Brothers fall dead at sight of long lost brother whom they sold into captivity.
Unintentional injuries bring unfortunate consequences.
Person has successive misfortunes while making plans because he forgets to say, "If God wills."
Lover's wound breaks while he is in bed with mistress.
Lover's spur catches in sheet when he tries to escape.
Man pinned in bed by weapon caught in quilt.
Feud starts over trifle.
Quarrel over dog starts the Guelph-Ghibelline feud.
Blind men accidentally hurt each other.
Lover who is detained away beyond stipulated time returns to find fiancйe married.
Hospitality enforced on hero keeps him overlong from home; meantime wife abducted.
Mistress expecting lover accidentally exchanges places with her maidservant.
Robber attempting to steal cow at night seizes thieving tiger.
Escaping prisoner falls by accident onto tiger's back and is carried away.
Woman errs on to the road-of-the-tiger: carried off.
Delay in bringing pardon allows deserved execution.
Sign of prisoner's reprieve changed by wind.
Man blinded trying to heal girl.
The sleeping guard.
Accidental self-injury.
Mistake in interpreting prophecy (oracle) brings misfortune.
Additional unlucky accidents.
Shipwrecked man lands on deadly enemy's territory and is attacked.
Man's inordinate laughter brings unfortunate results.
Man discovers he is married to wer-tiger.
Object unknown in a country sold for a fortune.
Whittington's cat.
Cat as sole inheritance.
Sickle sold for fortune in land without sickles.
Sickle as only inheritance.
Fortune from informing foreign king of use of saddle, bridle, and stirrups.
Salt in saltless land sold for fortune.
Sandalwood merchant sells his product at high price in land lacking sandalwood.
Fortune from trifling sum sent abroad with merchant.
King's example makes merchant wealthy.
Lucky bargain.
Progressive lucky bargains.
Abducted princess wishes that she were with rejected suitor; discovers that she is.
Poor man carries unwittingly in his water jar a large scorpion which brings him fortune.
Secrets overheard from animal (demon) conversation.
Secrets of animals (demons) accidentally overheard from tree (bridge) hiding place.
Secret remedy overheard in conversation of animals (witches).
Remedy for lack of water in certain place overheard in conversation of animals (demons).
Reason for withering of tree overheard in conversation of animals (demons).
Secret remedy revealed by departing animal.
Man transformed as ant, learns secret of freeing princess.
Conversation of objects overheard.
Speaking bed-legs overheard.
King overhears conversation of lamps.
Overheard (human) conversation.
Overheard boast about hidden money brings about robbery.
Robbers' plans overheard: owner warned.
Robbers' secret overheard and later used in court against them.
Secret formula for opening treasure mountain overheard from robbers (Open Sesame).
King overhears girl's boast as to what she should do as queen.
Secret remedies learned from green-clad woman.
Husband learns of wife's fidelity through conversation overheard.
Secret about prince's father learned by eavesdropper from his mother's talking to him.
Friend lingering in the kitchen learns of friend's distress and helps him.
Location of sought object learned from overheard conversation.
By hiding, stupid son overhears conversation and claims magic power for bamboo cup.
Servant overhearing conversation realizes the misery of his employment.
Men hear father threaten to marry daughters to first comers.
Enigmatical smile (laugh) reveals secret knowledge.
Secret physical peculiarity discovered by barber.
Secret physical blemish revealed by beaten handmaid.
Secret of person's sleeplessness discovered by trickery.
Daughter lousing mother weeps and reveals secret.
King in disguise to learn secrets of his subjects.
Newborn babe reveals secret; then becomes silent.
Foolish attempt of second man to overhear secrets (from animals, demons etc.).
Secret name overheard by eavesdropper.
Secret age overheard by eavesdropper.
Secret reason why hero does not want to eat the food of the foreign king overheard by eavesdropper.
Secret of unique vulnerability disclosed.
Secret of vulnerability voluntarily disclosed.
Man vulnerable only in armpits shot as he stretches his arms.
Secret unique means of killing ogre overheard from children.
Secret wealth betrayed by money left in borrowed money-scales.
Secret meat-eating betrayed by grease on mouth.
Secret escapes with man's blood.
Secret learned by torture.
Secret learned by burning hand.
Giant unwittingly reveals span of life to dwarf, who is thus emboldened to attack him.
Treasure in ground.
Treasure buried by men.
Treasure buried by dying man.
Sword hidden by old man.
Treasure buried in graves.
Treasure buried in ancient settlements.
Treasure buried in extraordinary topographical formations.
Buried treasure wanders from place to place.
Treasure buried in woodshed.
Treasure in cellar of ruined house.
Treasure found in ruined wall.
Treasure hidden by retreating army.
Treasure buried in chest, cask, kettle, or cannon barrel.
Treasure buried under tree.
Treasure buried under flower.
Treasure buried on top of mountain.
Treasure buried on island.
Treasure buried under stump.
Natural underground treasure.
Treasure placed in ground by supernatural beings.
Treasure of mountain spirit.
Treasure placed in old fortifications by supernatural beings.
Treasure found in snake hole.
Treasure under stone.
Treasure in underground chamber (cavern).
Treasure hidden under the water.
Man jumps into the sea, river or waterfall with his treasure.
Sword hidden under water.
Treasure hidden in spring.
Treasure hidden in river.
Treasure buried in sunken ship.
Queen's jewel-box thrown into tank floats to top during first week of new moon;
Treasure hidden in religious shrine.
Treasure hidden in sanctuary.
Treasure in temple.
Treasure at end of rainbow.
Treasure hidden in building.
Treasure hidden in secret room in house.
Treasure hidden within wall (under floor) of house.
Gold found, concealed in bricks and successfully secured.
Treasure left in stick.
Treasure hidden in pillow under dead man's head.
Treasure hidden in a stone.
Treasure found in beggar's hat.
Money found in the dead beggar's coat.
Treasure found in chest (kettle, cask).
Treasure found in bundle of rags.
Treasure (money) carried by bird to nest.
Diamond in meat carried to eagle's nest.
Talisman found in bird's stomach.
Treasure found in hollow of tree.
Where treasure is found--miscellaneous.
Lump of gold appears in Arabia at Christ's birth.
Pearl found in fish.
Treasure discovered through dream.
Dream of treasure on the bridge.
Dream brings treasure: trade vineyards with neighbor.
Dream of treasure bought.
Grateful king advises merchant in dream to take treasure from his grave mound.
Man dreams of large jars full of wealth, which he can get if he will sacrifice his wife for the getting.
Light indicates hidden treasure.
Half-moon close to the earth indicates hidden treasure.
Treasure discovered by magic object.
Treasure discovered by clairvoyant vase.
Treasure found by clairvoyant mirror.
Treasure discovered by hand of unborn child.
Consecrated wine used to discover treasure.
Men find mines of copper, silver, gold and iron where balls fall.
Treasure discovered by accident.
Stumble reveals depository of treasure.
Gold hoard found by cow stepping into hole.
Saint sticks crozier into sod and finds pound of gold.
Information about treasure received from overheard conversation.
Poor boy accidentally finds deserted city with treasure.
Treasure found by man when he obeys call of nature.
Man digging stones in the pavement finds a chest of treasure.
Men digging hole to plant rose-tree find treasure.
Jewel found accidentally on a bought donkey's neck.
Treasure indicated by statue (stone) with inscription, "Dig here".
Treasure indicated by stone cross on the ground.
Treasure pointed out by angels.
Speaking bird tells where treasure is buried.
Treasure pointed out by supernatural creature (fairy, etc.).
Treasure pointed out by soul which has left body for this purpose.
Treasure from defeated giant.
Treasure reveals itself only at certain times.
Treasure reveals itself only on Christmas at midnight (or Christmas Eve).
Treasure reveals itself once a century.
Treasure found on Hallowe'en.
Treasure discovered at the Nativity of Christ.
Special conditions for finding treasure.
Treasure found if one goes with one-night old colt on to one-night old ice.
Treasure to be found when three-legged cat shrieks over the burial place.
Certain person to find treasure.
Only particular persons see hidden treasure in its true form;
Treasure to be found by hand that hid it.
Treasure to be found by man who plows with cock and harrows with hen.
Treasure to be found by man who marries original owner's daughter.
Man in despair digging own grave finds treasure.
Man in despair preparing to hang himself finds treasure in the tree (beam).
Man ready to kill self hears voice directing him to buried fortune.
Understanding of animal languages leads to discovery of a treasure.
Discovery of treasure--miscellaneous.
Four pots of rupees magically appear on horns of buffaloes stuck in pond, and poor owner becomes rich.
Continual failure to find or unearth hidden treasure.
Who may unearth a treasure.
Only weak-minded person may unearth a treasure.
Treasure may be unearthed only by man who on the spot has sexual relations with a woman in the manner of dogs.
Treasure opens itself.
Treasure opens itself for destined hero.
Tabus in effect while treasure is being unearthed.
Tabu: incontinence while treasure is being raised.
Unlucky encounter causes treasure-seekers to talk and thus lose treasure.
Treasure finders must not take all of money.
Tabu: looking around while raising treasure.
Tabu: fear of threatening animals while treasure is being raised.
Ceremonies and prayers used at unearthing of treasure.
Sacrifices at unearthing of treasure.
Time favorable for unearthing treasure.
Between midnight and cockcrow best time for unearthing treasure.
Treasure nearest to surface at full of moon.
Treasure-finders always frightened away.
Treasure disappears after being uncovered.
Raised treasure turns into charcoal (shavings).
Electric shock scares away treasure diggers.
Treasure removes itself from time to time.
Treasure having removed itself eventually returns.
Treasure seekers find hole from which treasure has recently been removed.
Magic illusion prevents men from raising treasure.
Devil (demon) as guardian of treasure.
Ogre's son guardian of treasure trove.
Woman as guardian of treasure.
"White woman" as guardian of treasure.
Swan maidens as guardians of treasure.
Girl with ghostly treasure in boat.
Sleeping king in mountain as guardian of treasure.
Dwarf as guardian of treasure.
Griffin as guardian of treasure.
Ghosts prevent men from raising treasure.
Voice of ghost scares away treasure seekers.
Ghostly lights frighten treasure seekers.
Ghost of treasure's human owner as guardian.
Blind man carrying lame man as guardians of treasure.
Treasure guarded by magic object.
Treasure guarded by magic millstone.
Serpent guards treasure.
Angel as guardian of treasure.
Curse on treasure.
Treasure from striking animal or person and disenchanting him.
Helper in hiding treasure killed in order that nobody may ever find it.
Discovery of rich mine.
Rich mine discovered through dream.
Rich mine discovered by accidental breaking off of rock.
Discovery of underground oil pools.
Pools of underground oil discovered through dreams.
Criminal accidentally detected: "that is the first." Criminal accidentally detected: "that is the first"--sham
wise man.
Name of criminal accidentally spoken out (identical with ordinary word in speech).
Criminal accidentally detected: "That is the first" -- sleepy woman counting her yawns.
Numskull bridegroom unwittingly sings out phrases that thieves mistake to mean he has detected them.
Thief hears owner of house singing "Bore and throw out the earth" and thinks himself detected.
Numskull talks to himself and frightens robbers away.
Man scolds his ass and frightens robber away.
Numskull bribed to keep silent in elephant sale when he manifests interest, though utterly ignorant.
Cane as evidence of robbery.
Murder revealed to thieves climbing into bank.
Impostor accidentally gives king talking bed which reveals his identity.
Officer comes accidentally to the same building where the fugitive sleeps.
Lucky shot with arrow--foot and ear of deer.
Arrow accidentally makes shot for which prize is given.
Game killed by jumping on it from above.
Tortoise jumps from tree and breaks rhinoceros's back.
Lucky cast of spear (weapon).
Lucky cast of spear--animal's mouth pinned shut.
Lucky cast of ball: boy throws ball into mouth of hostile hound.
Lucky cast of ball made of human brains -- ball sticks in head of enemy.
Lucky cast from sling slays hostile queen.
Man falls into well and accidentally kills cobra: rewarded.
Fish jumps into boat of disheartened fisherman.
Ass falls into water and catches fish in his ear.
Destructive elephant eats poison man has prepared for himself.
The early pupil finds the gold.
The triple tax.
Patient laughs so at foolish diagnosis of sham physician that his abscess breaks and he gets well.
Patient laughs at monkey and cures himself.
Frog removed from queen's nose by telling such interesting story that she gives quick breath and dislodges him.
Insane man accidentally cured by blow on head.
Blind and deaf cure each other by blow on head.
Stinging of buttocks as cure for cough.
Cure by fall which causes bleeding.
Lost memory recovered in battle.
Man thinks to end life by drinking poisonous water, but it cures him.
Thorn accidentally removed from cobra's throat by woman's finger.
King accidentally cured by doctor's ruse and excuses pretended inability to cure him.
Pet swan saves self by singing death song.
Nut falls and wakes man about to be bitten by snake.
Child falls from cliff; uninjured.
Hero catches spear hurled at him and kills serpent with it.
Waves break caul of abandoned child.
Angry man strikes king just in time to save his life.
Warriors discover in the last moment that it is their own chief they are about to murder by burning.
Husband arrives home just in time to save wife and her father from being burned to death in their home.
Life saved by accident--miscellaneous.
Poisoned cakes intended for man by his wife eaten by thieves: booty left to man.
Youth accidentally absent when entire family is wiped out.
Sleeping king abducted by fairies wakes when his foot touches water.
Storm blows down tree and frees marooned tortoise.
Lucky fool.
Series of lucky successes.
Husband (lover) arrives home just as wife (mistress) is to marry another.
Return home to one's own funeral.
Wife finds lost husband just as he is to marry another.
Ruler makes ready to abandon barren wife and marry another.
Incest accidentally averted.
Man about to consummate marriage with own mother; accidentally prevented.
Man in love with his own sister accidentally learns her identity.
Son returns on day his mother is to be married to another (though her husband still lives).
Prophecy of future greatness fulfilled when hero returns home unknown.
Stranger accidentally chosen king.
Naked soldier becomes general.
Fool passes as wise man by remaining silent.
Hero's (heroine's) identity established as he (she) is on the point of being executed.
Hero unwittingly helps fee's sons: rewarded.
What is in the dish: "Poor Crab".
Doctor know-all accidentally saves raja.
Objects accidentally picked up used to overawe ogress.
Numskull's outcry overawes tiger who is carrying him on his back.
Hero attempting to escape from tiger plays music and tiger follows.
Stupid man grabs tiger in the dark, ties it up, and saddles it, believing it to be a horse.
Person reported lost joins unwittingly in search for himself.
Missing girl reveals identity and saves man condemned for kidnapping her.
Man sent away from battlefield to deliver message the only survivor of battle.
Apparently dead woman revives as she is being prepared for burial.
Apparently dead woman revives when dropped.
Passengers on a boat are terrorized by a cutthroat.
Fugitive in tree urinates from fright: pursuers think it rain and leave.
Man falls out of tree and frightens tiger away.
Grinding stones carried by men seeking refuge in tree-top fall, killing their enemies below.
Hawk carries off necklace from bathing queen and drops it by lucky girl, who gets reward.
Other lucky accidents.
Father and brother accidentally return home just as they are most needed in fight.
King's son comes home just at his father's funeral, when the heritage has to be divided.
Companions arrive as hero is about to be killed.
Orphan gets wife because swollen creek prevents marriage to someone else.
Boy while cutting trees comes to one which happens to be bound up with the life of an ogre.
Overheard wish is realized.
King (prince) accidentally finds maiden and marries her.
King (prince) finds maiden in woods (tree) and marries her.
Hero finds maiden in (magic) castle.
Hero finds maiden in (magic) garden.
Prince sees maiden at church and is enamored.
Lovers meet at temple.
Prince (king) finds girl floating on water in basket: marries her.
Prince sees heroine at ball and is enamored.
Prince first sees heroine as she comes forth from her hiding-box.
Princess concealed in trunk and sent to beggar, who marries her.
King marries girl who finds lost object of his.
Princess catches raja's golden bird; he trails it to her palace.
King marries girl who finds his lost ring.
Lovers first see each other on shores of lake.
Hero finds maiden at fountain (well, river).
Lover sees beloved first while she is bathing.
Man stumbles on bathing maiden.
Accidental meeting with the son of the only person who can overcome curse on hero.
Runaway horse carries bride to her lover.
Girl sees man as he lies sleeping by wayside.
Hunter accidentally discovers beautiful girl being secretly reared in a cave.
Unexpected meeting of father and son.
Unknown son returns to father's court.
King unknowingly adopts his own lost son.
Father-son combat.
Hero fights with friend of father and then reveals himself.
Undesired combat between sworn (blood) brothers (foster brothers).
Father unexpectedly meets abandoned son and reinstates him.
At execution block condemned man discovered to be king's unknown son.
Accidental meeting of father and daughter.
Father unwittingly buys daughter who has been sold into slavery.
Deserted daughter's good fortune discovered by accident.
Daughter's good fortune accidentally discovered by father who has become a beggar.
Parents accidentally meet daughter who has survived their attempts to drown her.
Accidental meeting of brothers.
Brothers unwittingly fight each other.
Brother unwittingly kills half brother in fight.
Joseph and his brethren.
Two returning brothers unwittingly purchase bird, which is transformed youngest brother, as present intended for him.
Brothers accidentally reunited when wedding of one to a king's daughter is celebrated and neighboring rulers are invited.
Accidental meeting of brother and sister.
Slaves ordered married discover they are brother and sister.
Saint prays with woman; learns she is his sister.
Accidental meeting of mother and son.
Begging ascetics beg alms of their own mother.
Accidental meeting of mother and daughter.
Accidental reunion of lovers.
Accidental meeting of nephew and uncle.
Uncle and nephew unwittingly about to kill one another.
Unexpected meeting of husband and wife.
Concealed wife.
Husband and wife become separated in shipwreck.
Slandered queen chances to be in Rome at the same time as her estranged husband.
Calumniated wife is forced to flee.
Husband and wife reunited after long separation and tedious quest.
Maiden found in magic garden; prince's wife in former life.
Accidental meeting of sisters.
Accidental meeting of seeker of exiled prince with prince at meal.
Accidental meeting of cousins.
Unexpected encounter in oasis.
Person accidentally met unexpectedly knows the other's name.
Hero captured by man he has formerly rescued: rewarded.
Unexpected meeting with wild man.
Meeting with robber band.
Unwitting adultery with blood-brother's wife.
Unwitting combat between sons of friends.
Abandoned children accidentally discovered by villainess.
Feast as occasion for the beginning of adventures or the arrival of questers.
King (prince) lost on hunt has adventures.
King on hunt is taken prisoner.
Girls going in the wood for nuts have adventures.
Parting at crossroads to go on adventures.
Adventure from following animal to cave (lower world).
Adventure from following ogre to cave.
Adventure from returning for forgotten comb.
Adventures from pursuing enchanted animal (hind, boar, bird).
Adventure from pursuing thieving birds.
Adventures from seeking (lost) domestic beast (bull).
Adventures from pursuing animal (not magic).
Runaway ox leads pursuer to burial place of Adam and Eve.
Race with fairies leads to adventures.
Light seen from tree lodging place at night leads to adventures.
Climbing tree to look around leads to adventures.
Adventures from trying to strangle oneself in tree.
Adventures from having slept beneath tree.
Dropped ball (basket) leads to adventures when recovery is attempted.
Adventures encountered in running after cotton being blown away by wind.
Bucket dropped into well leads to adventures.
Flax dropped into well leads to adventures.
Spindle dropped into well leads to adventures.
Taking refuge in a grave leads to adventure.
Hero embarks in rudderless boat.
Mother's parting gift to adventuring son: the two loaves of bread.
Broken vessel (calabash, etc.) to be mended leads to adventure.
Shouting after bathing: adventures follow.
Adventures from seeking water.
Man hunting honey encounters lost maiden, returns her to her parents.
Anchor catching in oratory of submarine monastery leads to adventures.
Incidents when wife takes food to husband in field or forest.
Adventures from pursuing object carried off by river.
Adventures from pursuing objects carried off by bird.
Helper grateful for being bought from slavery.
Invisible guardians.
Helper's beard and eyebrows cut.
Hero's divine father as helper.
Supernatural helper comes from sky.
Supernatural person disguised as servant as helper.
Saint disguised (as poor man) as helper.
Supernatural godfather.
Giant or ogre as helper.
Magic object received from giant.
Giant's help secured by feeding him.
Wise giant as foster father of hero.
Giantess as foster mother and helper of hero.
Grateful giantess as helper.
Giantess helps the man she loves.
Monster grateful to hero for being spared becomes helpful.
Ogre magically produces water for caravan.
Chief with three supernatural ogre helpers.
Helpful genie (spirit).
Helpful angel.
Man carried through air by angel.
Fairy as helper.
Helpful tree-spirit.
Helpful water-spirit.
Gift of gold bracelet from river goddess.
Fairy nurse as helper.
Santa Claus as bringer of Christmas gifts.
Deity as helper.
God as helper.
Goddess as helper.
Gods discuss means of settling dispute among girl's suitors.
Sky as helper.
Sun as helper.
Supernatural helpers--miscellaneous.
Immortal as helper.
Transformed person as helper.
Transformed mother as helper.
Helpful vital heads.
Helpful speaking skull.
Supernatural medicine-man as helper.
Help from little man.
Lame boy (girl) as helper.
Old person as helper.
Childless old couple adopt hero.
Old man helper.
Old woman helper.
Help from old beggar woman.
Old woman by spring as helper.
Help from grandmother.
Help from beggar.
Child as helper.
Wise woman as helper.
Girl as helper.
Mysterious housekeeper.
Mysterious housekeeper is fairy mistress.
Boy as helper.
Boy as mysterious housekeeper for buffalo herd.
Sons as helpers.
Wealthy (powerful) man as helper.
King as helper.
King adopts hero (heroine).
Each of four kings does something to save dying falcon.
King helps princes in exile to avenge their father and take their homeland back.
Queen as helper.
Hero (culture hero) as helper.
Shepherd as helper.
Cook as helper.
Cook as foster father.
Hermit as helper.
Dervish as helper.
Sadhu as helper.
Fakir as helper.
Magician as helper.
Cleric as helper.
Palmer as helper.
Priest as helper.
Prophet as helper.
Saint (pious man) as helper.
Holy man as helper.
Hero ransoms maltreated picture of a saint.
A wise man (saint, brahmin) recognizes that a man unwittingly carries a venomous serpent in his proviant sack and warns him.
Merchant as helper.
Soldier as helper.
Peasant as helper.
Peasant as foster father.
Helpful smith.
Smith as foster father.
Helpful forester.
Forester as foster father.
Cowherd as foster father.
Enemy's servant as helper.
Foundling helper.
Slave (swineherd) as helper of princess.
Slave recognized by his conversation, habits and character.
Leper as helper.
Robber as helper.
Robber helps king.
Blind man carries lame man.
Hunchback leads blind man.
Issue of marriage of brother and sister of highest chiefly rank is a god.
Special place where occur births of royalty.
Choice of kings.
Prophecy that brother who first kisses saint will be king.
Choice of king of trees.
Bramble chosen king of trees.
Choice of kings by divine will.
Kings chosen by lot.
Winner of contest to be king.
King chosen by contest: princes finding greatest fault with their father.
King chosen by contest.
The one of two giant brothers who performs the greatest feat and procures the wildest dog elected as king.
The one of two giant brothers who gets the most skillful princess elected as king.
Owner of magic object chosen as king.
King chosen on basis of strength and exploits.
He who can open palace door to be king.
Amasser of largest fortune to be king.
He who can fill out a certain wide seat chosen as king.
Inauguration of king as espousal to goddess.
Character of kings.
Hunting a madness of kings.
Injustice deadliest of monarch's sins.
Tyrannical king.
Usurper imposes burdensome taxes.
King who intends rape killed.
Good king never retreats in battle.
Dead king carried into battle in his war-chariot.
King in battle hides in ditch, with earth piled around him.
Just king brings good fortune upon people.
Four duties of king to subjects: devotion, protection of subjects, justice, and increase of his kingdom.
Clever king knows everything in advance.
King banishes nobleman whose castle he wants.
Nobility of character a mark of kings.
King is superior to all in strength, beauty, largeness, etc., and usually has victory.
Uxorious king neglects duties.
King avenges lack of homage.
King quick to anger.
King to be seen after anger cools.
Modesty of king.
Customs connected with kings.
Privileges of under-king.
Duties of under-king's retainers.
King cannot judge without crown.
Mismanagement of king's treasury a mortal offense.
Royal purple (golden diadem) worn as sign of royalty.
Kingly insignia worn only on field of battle.
Ring can make or unmake a king.
King must marry.
Crowning of kings.
Anointing of kings.
Custom to appoint a king by day and slay him at night.
Royal anniversaries.
King must never be present at funeral.
Royal perquisites.
King has first choice in booty.
Fifth of the land's production belongs to king.
Particular practices of kings.
Prisoners released as celebration of king's success.
King will not permit a one-eyed man in his presence.
King playing chess when important news arrives.
King orders all gold brought to him.
King never touches earth: carried always by slaves.
King's (prince's) sulking chamber.
None permitted to enter hall of king unless he possesses an art.
King does not want men who are unable to engage in any sport.
King asks all newcomers what they can do and expects a prompt answer.
Law that nobody may give the king bad tidings.
Kings have seat on hills.
King angry at hero who rides straight into the castle without permission.
King has his own gifts stolen back for him.
King gives his own wife as reward.
King requires everyone who comes before him to tell a story.
King has champion to enforce respect.
Old, wise counsellor of court.
Court messenger.
Threefold division of king's day: King's stronghold on island.
King orders man whose neck the rope will fit to be executed.
King goes in disguise at night to observe his subjects.
Tom-tom beater to spread the news of kingship.
King shows himself in public only one day a year.
King keeps lions as pets and a lion-tamer at his palace.
King does not eat much during years of famine in order not to forget the hungry.
Adventures of kings.
Disguised king punished by peasant.
Disguised king taught courtesy by peasant.
King pardons person who has made mistake of addressing one of his courtiers as king.
King demands subject's wife for himself.
King carries off subject's wife and makes her his own.
King loses his kingdom to impostor.
King is cursed by disguised dwarf-smiths whose work he criticised.
King frees man sent by rival king to kill him.
King descends to bottom of sea in glass barrel to study ways of fishes.
King himself works at brick building so that subjects cannot complain of enforced labor.
Subjects drive their ruler away after he has made them do forced labor.
End of king's reign.
King (prince) retires from the world (becomes hermit, swineherd).
King on retiring orders funeral obsequies given him.
King learning of queen's adultery abdicates.
The higher the office held in this world, the heavier the judgment of God: Cuchulinn's reason for abjuring kingship.
Father abdicates in favor of son.
King must resign if maimed (disfigured).
King must resign if he begets natural son.
King killed when old.
King commits suicide.
Old king attacked.
Attempt to kill old king by suffocating him in bathroom.
King too old to fight goes himself into his grave mound.
Persons buried with dead king.
Suttee.
Shavings of spear which killed king cast into cataract.
Kings worshipped after their death.
King slain by "his own household" in revenge for deposing his father.
Land where every raja dies; if he rules for a day he dies that night; if he rules for a night, he dies that day.
King's coffin sunk into river.
Succession to the throne.
No sons left to rule after father.
Son succeeds father as king.
At son's wedding king names him as successor.
Vengeance for destruction of fairy-mound pursues king's descendants.
First man to arrive after king's death to be heir.
Queen chosen to live rather than king so that she can bear an heir to the throne.
Dying king names successor.
Second-born son declared as successor because message about the birth of first son was slower traveling.
Kingship rotates among brothers.
Brothers rule jointly.
Succession by mother-right.
Succession will fall to line that has been wronged.
Kingship given to younger brother.
Natural son succeeds to the throne.
Natural son is refused kingship and half heritage.
Three sons each get a kingship, but the youngest the most important in the home country.
Slayer of king marries widow and inherits kingdom.
King to be succeeded by whoever can carry his dead body a certain distance.
What the princes most desire: king asks each of three sons separately.
Marriage of kings.
After highly mourned wife's death the king marries another who turns out to be an evil witch.
Limited number of wives for polygamous king.
Other motifs connected with kings.
King's presence necessary for army's victory.
King may have any woman as paramour if he makes her a settlement.
King abducts woman to be his paramour.
King must procure whatever visiting poets ask, or suffer from their satire.
Kingly powers (rights).
King's wand (rod).
King may judge against all save one of highest rank in religion or learning.
King raised from dead (by saint). Irish myth: Cross.
Clever queen.
Queen intervenes for condemned courtiers.
Queen as intercessor with king.
Queen marries murderer of her fiancйe.
Queen leaves country with her son, having killed her husband in revenge for his killing of her father and brother.
Queen persuades king to make war without cause that her sons may have territory.
Queen persuades husband to riot against his superior.
Queen persuades husband to claim her father's kingdom after his death.
Queen persuades husband to avenge her father.
Queen offers son to be killed in order to spur to fight and avenge her first husband.
Queen must pay tribute to victorious queen to the amount paid by king to victorious king.
Queen meddles in state affairs.
Captured queen commits suicide.
Queen commits suicide, as her husband vanquishes and kills her father and her brother.
Grief at queen's death.
King sits mourning on his wife's grave mound.
King mourns so much at wife's death that he goes on piracy, (every summer afterward).
King calls daughter in second marriage by the name of his first queen.
Marriage of queen.
Chieftainess of such rank that none of her countrymen can woo her.
Queens--miscellaneous.
No king to rule who is not husband of certain queen.
Queen commits adultery with husband's foster son.
Queen (princess) pours liquor for battle champions.
King's sons called kings.
Prince must learn a trade.
Princes as smiths.
Friendship of prince and commoner.
All children born in realm on same day as chief's son are brought to palace to be the boy's companions.
Prince imprisoned as hostage for safety from king.
Unknown prince chosen chief of children in play.
Dispossessed prince taunted by usurper's son.
Birth rites confer royalty on infant prince.
Prince forfeits father's and God's blessing if he fails to claim throne.
Princess cannot be married to someone of low caste, though he passes suitor test.
Great warrior destroyed by king when he asks for princess in marriage.
King and vassals: obligations of vassals to king.
King demands open gate to vassals' castle (city).
Earl.
Earl's name preferred to king's.
Marshall.
Noble person saves self from difficulties by knowledge of a trade.
Knight jousts with all comers.
Knight's duty to perform as lady bids.
Wild man of noble birth.
Noble woman given to foreigners on condition that thereafter their land be held by female right.
Bathing pool reserved for royalty.
Certain foods, ornaments, feathers, etc. reserved for royalty.
Garment must be removed in presence of certain high chiefs.
Impossible to refuse the request of a troubled nobleman.
Banished minister found indispensable and recalled.
Minister acts as stepping-stone in midst of flame-filled trench so that king can step across from one side to the other.
Man so rich that people prefer the dung from his mules over king's gold and silver.
Beggars' many children.
Lepers.
Naked leper.
Beggar rewarded by king for poem (song).
Female slaves.
Female slaves as medium of exchange (unit of value).
Branding person makes him one's slave for life.
Slave's ear bored.
Bond woman with rope girding her loins.
Requirement that slaves given as tribute should not know Irish.
Captive king's sons made slaves.
Captive king's daughter as slave.
Killed enemy's son as slave.
Captives from battle sold as slaves.
Futile attempt to get rid of man by selling him to merchants as slave.
Children of slave and free person become slaves.
Slave killed.
Slave hanged.
Murder by slaves.
Origin of thralls.
Slaves freed.
Knocking out a slave's tooth entitles him to freedom.
Slaves released after definite term.
Social status of foreigners.
Madmen (fools, professional fools).
Professional fool.
Fool as clever judge.
Fool can walk on water.
Fool can live under water.
Fool makes friends with birds and beasts.
Customary to shave heads of demented so that they may be recognized as such.
Fool recognized by lump on his forehead.
Inherent enmity between members of a family.
Feud between two branches of family.
Person reproached for having no relatives.
Game with ancestors' bones.
Refusal to fight relatives.
Wife chooses father's side in feud.
Wife chooses father rather than husband or son.
Mother kills husband for murdering their daughter.
Wife more merciful than blood relations.
Husband more merciful than blood relations.
Wife drinks blood of slain husband.
Wife commits suicide (dies) on death of husband.
Wife only one able to persuade her husband.
Mother prefers son, father daughter.
Mother dislikes her children in forced marriage.
Queen dislikes son who is unlike her and loves a poor girl: plots against him.
Mother and son.
Boy sickens from grief at mother's death.
Son warns mother.
Mother-love.
Mother kills sons who lack courage to help her revenge her father and brothers, and are likely to betray the plot.
Mother reveals fact that son is offspring of supernatural father.
Mother (eagle) casts out dull, stupid changeling; rears bold, energetic son.
Mother commits suicide when son wants to marry foreigner according to foreign rites.
Mother and daughter.
Wicked mother and her sons do everything to prevent daughter's marriage with beloved.
Mother lets daughter unwittingly marry own father in order to avenge his raping.
Father and son.
Son as pledge for father who has committed murder.
Young hero rebuked by his father.
Father drives away bad son whom the mother prefers.
Berserks scold their father who apparently without reason called their adversary invincible.
Hero's son by giantess scorns his father's feebleness: still it is the son who is slain.
Natural son preferred to legitimate.
Oldest son responsible to father for welfare of others.
Son avenges father.
Son must threaten father before he will recognize him as son, even though he brings ring from his mother.
Prodigal son returns.
Son chastizes father for scorning mother.
Father in vision reproves son about to succumb to temptation.
Birthright transferred by father from the oldest son to another.
Father and daughter.
Daughter marries her husband's slayer in order to save her old father from war.
Father and daughter die at same time.
Undutiful children.
Folly of father's giving all property to children before his death.
Supposed chest of gold induces children to care for aged father.
Not daring to curse father directly, son does so indirectly.
Son deposes father and usurps throne.
Undutiful children ridicule father while he is drunk and naked.
Undutiful son overawes his father by threats.
Undutiful son taught lesson showing his mother has suffered from him.
Daughters flogged by parents.
Parents descend to hell instead of sons.
Pious children save their parents from hell.
Children punished for fathers' sins.
Elder children to protect younger.
Brothers.
Friend unfaithful but brother faithful.
Warrior will not fight where his brother was slain.
Brothers follow each other in exile.
Brothers strive to avenge each other.
Brothers scorn brother's wise counsel.
Brothers kill brother because they fail to understand his wise answer.
Two brothers.
Two brothers follow and help each other on piracy, etc.
Two brothers are confusingly like each other.
Hostile brothers.
Two brothers as contrasts.
Brother unjustly imprisoned by brother.
Man's descendants shall serve those of his brother.
Several brothers.
Three brothers.
Four brothers.
Six or seven brothers.
Eight brothers.
Nine brothers.
Eleven brothers.
Twelve brothers.
Older brother has birthright, entitling him to a double share.
Repudiation of relationship of birth between man and his bad brother.
Sisters.
Two sisters.
Sister kills sister.
Three sisters.
Seven sisters.
Eight sisters.
Nine sisters.
Ten sisters.
Eighteen sisters kill one another.
Sister and brother.
Sister's son.
One sister and two brothers.
One sister and three (four) brothers.
One sister and ten brothers.
One sister and six (seven, eleven, twelve) brothers.
Brother about to drink blood of seemingly guilty sister.
Sister faithful to transformed brother.
Brother faithful to persecuted sister.
Brother chosen rather than husband or son.
Girl comes to brother's aid when he is attacked.
Sister avenges brother's death.
Sister warns brothers.
Brothers persecute sister's lover and are in return killed by him.
Clever sister saves life of brother.
Woman dies of sorrow for death of brother.
Great love of brothers for sister.
Father-in-law.
Mother-in-law.
Bad relations between mother-in-law and daughter-in-law.
Brother-in-law.
Widower marries wife's sister.
Sister-in-law.
Son-in-law.
Idle sons-in-law driven away by gradually reducing their food.
Foster parents fined for blemish on child.
Peasant and his wife as foster parents of exposed king's son.
Parents kill son for slaying their foster son.
Foster father.
Magician as foster father.
Fisherman as foster father.
Dwarf as foster father.
Living king's or nobleman's son as foster son of father's friend: considered an honor for the foster father.
Foster father as constant helper.
Foster children return foster father's love: avenge him, etc.
King's son named after his father's foster father.
Thor slays his foster father and takes himself the realm of Thrace.
Foster mother.
Witch foster mother.
Foster mother as helper.
Former mistress as sons' foster mother.
Foster brother.
Faithful foster brother.
Foster brothers avenge each other.
King's son begs pardon for treacherous foster brother.
Foster brother as constant adviser.
Faithless foster brother.
Promise of marriage to king's daughter induces warrior to fight foster brother.
Earl's son seduces foster brother's sister and betrays himself.
King's son falsely accuses foster brother of attempt to seduce his sister.
Magic writing makes foster brothers enemies.
Unable to hit man himself, enemy kills his foster brother.
Children of Tuatha De Danann fostered by Milesians.
Foster sister.
Love between foster sister and foster brother.
Foster son.
Foster son commits adultery with foster father's wife.
Stepfather.
Stepfather as foster father.
Stepfather murdered.
Stepmother.
Realm ruled by stepmother, while king is absent.
Stepmother mourns her stepsons' death, not her own son's.
Stepmother in love with stepson.
Love of stepmother who has killed her husband refused.
Stepbrother.
Stepbrothers kill devastating monsters.
Stepsister.
Grandfather.
Grandfather as foster father.
Grandmother.
Grandmother as foster mother.
Uncle.
Mother's brother as foster father.
Mother's brother as helper.
Children take after their mother's brothers.
Hero killed in fighting with father's brother.
Young prince sent to his father's mother's brother.
Father's brother avenged.
Aunt.
Paternal aunt as aid.
Cousins.
Godparents.
Godfather.
Godmother.
Nephew.
Niece.
Friends want to divide good and evil.
Friends avenge each other.
Dying hero sends greetings to friends.
Friends want their children to be friends too.
Dying man asks friends to let his son inherit his friendship together with his father's weapons.
Friends' children become enemies.
Defeated enemy turns true friend.
One friend dies shortly after the other.
Man wins wife for his friend.
Friendship possible only between equals.
Friends given the power of reading each other's secret thoughts.
Sworn brethren.
Friends exchange names.
Combatants become sworn brethren.
Flower-friendship.
Human sons of animal companions go together on adventures Africa.
Friends born at same moment.
Covenant of friendship.
Ceremonial friendship.
Saints exchange bachalls as mark of affection.
Saints exchange bells.
Friendship between a prince and common man.
Blood-brotherhood.
Saint makes blood covenant with animals.
Drinking mixture of blood, milk, and wine as pledge of covenant.
Sworn brethren and blood brethren avenge each other.
Surviving blood brother to watch three nights in grave-mound.
Milk-brotherhood.
Friendship starts at babyhood: two babies exchanged.
Combat of disguised friends.
Friends offer to die for each other.
Competition in friendship: prisoner and jailor.
Friend gives false witness to set free his accused friend.
Friend sacrifices his life for the other.
Man knowing of murder plot against his friend disguises and is killed in his place.
Refusal to believe that a friend has spoken ill of one.
Refusal to believe that a friend will harm one.
Man refuses to follow friend in wicked conduct.
Deeds of friendship--miscellaneous.
Two friends captured by Moors have money to ransom only one.
Man who has counseled friend in assassination asks to be killed on the other's body.
Friend's intercession saves man from execution.
The sacred partnership.
Hands of friends extend through sides of tombs and clasp in death.
Successful rival gives his lady to unsuccessful friend.
"Friendship without refusal." Danger of one saint voluntarily incurred by another.
Hospitality for a whole winter.
Hospitality for (three) years.
Salt of hospitality.
Guest given refuge.
Nobleman forces escaping prisoner to accept his hospitality.
Guest in disguise or under false name.
Refugee entertained in holy place (church, monastery, etc.).
Hosts refrain from telling guest of death in household.
Host greets guest with gifts.
Host treats guest with food and everything possible.
Guests fed before being questioned.
Guests' life inviolable.
Host surrenders his wife to his guest.
Guest begets son with his host's daughter.
If host does not return, the house shall belong to the guest.
Barmecide feast.
Strangers entertained by family to whose hitching-ring they happen to tie their horses.
Refusal to receive preferred help until series of stories has been told.
Selfish guest expels host.
Shabby hospitality forces guests to leave.
Guests accused of greediness.
Poor person makes great effort to entertain guests.
Poor host and his wife kill themselves because they are unable to entertain expected guests.
Wife scolds husband's hospitality, as he really has nothing to give.
Poor peasant closes the eyes in order not to see guest eat: later suicide.
King demands work, sport or entertainment from winter guests.
Christian king makes baptism a condition for hospitality during the winter.
Sitting in a circle of feasts.
Druids as teachers.
Teacher dies of pride over success of pupil.
Student enters competition with his master.
Student challenges his fencing master.
Teacher threatens to curse pupils if they disobey.
Faithful servant.
Faithful servant dies for his master.
Faithful servant kills his master's murderer and is killed in turn.
Faithful servant wants to follow on dangerous quest, where he alone is killed.
Hero's charioteer faithful to master till death.
Faithful servant remains at home and fights for exiled hero.
Faithful servant sacrifices sons to save life of king.
Faithful nurse tries to save tyrant's daughter by exposing her own in her place.
Abandoned maiden helped by her faithful nurse.
Faithful servant dies avenging master's death.
Captain will not betray king's secret.
Faithful servant undergoes torture for sake of his master.
Crow lets itself be caught so as to save king of crows.
Faithful servant entrusted with care and education of crown prince.
Faithless servant.
Faithless men-servants corrupt the maids in the household.
Servant planning to possess his master's goods.
Master demands that servant tell him of his faults as well as of his good qualities.
Son insists on following father's trade.
Peasant.
Peasant refuses to sell possessions to king.
Peasant and his wife in hut near castle as contrasts to king and queen.
Peasant is cutting wood in front of his house as guests arrive.
Wounded hero finds shelter and is cured in peasant's house.
Hero stays overnight in peasant's house, to which he accidentally comes, and where he gets advice and direction.
Shepherd.
Shepherd as hero.
Life of shepherd proper preparation for ruler.
Swineherd.
Hero as rabbit-herd.
Ferryman.
Eternal ferryman.
Ferryman puts oar into king's hand and he must remain ferryman.
Hunter.
Collier.
Hero as collier.
Judge.
Jackals as judges.
Lawyer.
Lawyers punished in hell.
Tongue of dead lawyer found to be lacking.
Physician.
Physician hides eyes as he passes graveyard.
Doctor who can cure can also poison.
Physician killed for fatal diagnosis.
"Skillful" physician compelled to help carry away the bier of his dead patient.
Fairy as physician.
Female physician.
Scribe.
Scribe who cannot read his own writing.
Clergy.
In fear of clerics pagans flee into fairy mounds.
Parson (priest).
First of animals and fruits belong to priest.
Hermit.
Monks.
Untrained monk becomes skillful wright (smith) through power of saint.
Monks as converted druids.
Woman disguised as monk enters monastery.
Druid (poet, learned man).
Druid inspires great respect and fear.
Person assailed by druid loses treasure.
Women druids.
Simon Magus as druid.
Druid performs sacrifices.
Druids perform human sacrifice.
Druids as priests.
Druidic (heathen) baptism.
Druidic tonsure.
Druid as emissary of peace.
Advice (instruction) from druid.
Poet (druid) as satirist.
Fear of druidic lampoon as activating power.
Druid as physician.
Wounded soldiers healed by bath in pool of milk through power of druid.
Druid as judge.
Poet.
Extemporaneous composition by poets.
Extensive repertory of poets.
Difficult language used by poets.
Poets and fools closely allied.
Blind poets.
Women poets.
Bard.
Poet's rod.
Poet as judge.
Poet rewarded for poem.
Poets banished.
Excessive demands of poets.
Rivaling poets.
Druids as rath-builders.
Druids (poets) boil spell.
Musician.
Harper.
Miscellaneous learned professions.
Astronomers.
Financiers and merchants.
Merchant.
Merchants as spreaders of news.
Usurer.
Wealthy usurer prays that the sons of the rich will become mad.
Usurer stops lending money.
Tailor.
Tailor occupies God's throne for a day.
Tailoring only trade devil cannot learn.
Tailor punished in hell.
Busy tailor asks soldier to mount watch in his place.
Baker.
Baker and devil walking together.
Miller.
Water-miller.
Why millers are thieves.
Cabinet-maker.
Brave soldier and timid cabinet-maker as companions.
Weaver.
Why weavers are the most unhappy of men.
Why weavers have patience.
Barber.
Barbers as bunglers of plans.
Barbers cunning and greedy.
Smith.
Smith from Lochlann Smith as grandfather of king.
Smith as rath-builder.
Smith as lord of hall of hospitality.
Smith punished in hell.
Smith honored by king as indispensable.
Rivaling smiths.
Goldsmith as lover.
Covetous goldsmith.
Butcher.
Spinner.
Dressmaker (milliner, etc.).
Shoemaker.
Why shoemakers are indolent.
Hatter.
Mason (bricklayer).
Carpenter.
House-painter.
Woodsman.
Other artisans.
Printer.
Soldier.
Soldier who has had both hands severed fights with his teeth until he is killed.
Soldier dies happy on learning of enemy's rout.
Soldier is ordered to set fire to enemy's armada.
Woman instructs in art of arms.
Actor.
Actors banished along with vagabonds.
Robber.
Twelve robbers.
Robbers defeated and killed.
Astrologer.
Painter (artist).
Devil pulls painter from chair.
Juggler (conjurer).
Philosopher.
Treacherous philosophers.
Criminal allowed to choose his method of execution.
Chooses to die of old age.
Man condemned to lose his eye is allowed to choose the instrument.
Condemned woman may be freed by marrying a rogue.
Release from execution at a woman's request (by marriage to her).
Criminal may fight against odds rather than be judicially executed.
Pardoning of criminal comes too late.
Youngest of judges first to give decision.
Crime less serious if committed at request of a lady.
Cities of refuge.
Complacent judge disregards the confession.
Laws.
Lex talionis.
A nose for a nose.
Bringing suit in law courts.
Foreigner may not bring suit.
Madman may not bring suit.
Fool not to be punished for his crime.
Slave may not bring suit.
Legal security.
Poet may not act as security.
Foreigner may not act as security.
Contracts.
"It is a debt if it is promised." Contract made by madman void.
Contract made by woman without her husband void.
He nearest to blood of slain man must avenge his death.
Legal principles.
"To every cow belongs its calf," "To every son belongs his mother"
Taxation and payment of fines or tribute.
Tribe failing to attend yearly feast to send gift as sign of submission.
Tribute required of conquered foreigners.
Tax on treasure trove.
Payment of tax (tribute).
Feudal tribute.
Hostages.
Boys as hostages.
Eric fines (imposed for personal injury, etc.).
Punishment for failure to pay tax.
Nose cut off for failure to pay tax.
Payment of stipend.
Law-making.
Heptads.
Laws made at yearly feast.
Laws made at feast every seven years.
Miscellaneous legal customs.
Army.
Band of professional warriors.
Army of young men.
Soldiers chained (tied) together to prevent flight from battle.
Clerics exempted from military service.
Hero drives retreating warriors back into battle.
Boy corps.
Law requiring military service of women revoked through influence of saint.
Conflicts with the recruiting officers.
Retainers not required to go to battle under overlord except for pay.
Only 700 subjects of under-king required to serve under overlord on any one hosting.
"Battle seeds" (semen bellicosum).
Battle formations.
Battle-pen.
Superior troops distributed throughout army to prevent their soldierly qualities from being too obvious.
Phalanx.
Roof of shields.
War-machines.
Haircut as preparation for war.
Weapons.
Poisoned weapons.
Battle-cairn.
Defeat in battle.
Submission indicated by defeated lying with conqueror's sword between teeth.
Corpses of dead foes dismembered.
Heads of fallen enemies piled up after battle.
"Publication of slaying." Jawbone cut from slain opponent.
Gate of captured town (castle) to be widened until overlord's spear can pass through crosswise.
Challenge to battle.
Challenge by turning left side of shield toward enemy.
Challenge to battle by hurling javelin skyward.
Military customs.
Warrior not entitled to ransom if captured without arms.
Pledge with enemy to be kept.
Stones erected where enemy falls.
Customs concerning single combat.
First to reach field of combat has choice of weapons.
Warrior who begins combat has right to desist.
Choice of weapons alternates each succeeding day.
"Men's truth" (fir fer).
Warrior engaged in combat with one-armed opponent allows one hand to be bound to his side.
Warrior disgraced by slaying of those under his protection.
Warrior dies with face toward foe.
Divorce given to wives before leaving for battle.
Tournaments.
King is persuaded to rescind ban on tournaments.
Tournament: to avenge death of king.
Women meet when bathing.
Trumpet blown before house of one sentenced to death.
Charon's fee: putting coin in dead person's mouth to pay for ferry across Styx.
Newcomers forced to pass the night with ruling princess.
People weep when child is born.
Bridle goes with horse when horse is bought.
Servant must keep horns and hide of his cattle that are slain.
Fasting (as a means of distraint).
Fasting against God.
Clerics fast against God for revelation.
Fasting against the Devil.
Fasting against fairies.
Fasting against saints.
Fasting by saints causes tree worshipped by pagans to fall.
Fasting to enforce saint's dues.
Calves not let to cows during fast.
Strangers to be given precedence over man at home.
Customs concerning recognition of rank.
Couches provided for men of high rank.
Cuts of meat distributed according to rank.
"The champion's portion." Rank among children recognized by quality of appointments
and food.
Color worn signifies rank.
Precedence shown by position of shield (flag).
Long hair prized by Irish heroes.
Young not to precede old.
Feasts.
Customs connected with eating and food.
Feast (hospitality) endures for three days and three nights.
Feast (hospitality) endures for seven days and seven nights.
Injured husband will not kill a naked man.
Only the brave to wear beards.
With only opponent's arms.
Hero unwilling to answer questions before he is dressed.
Customs concerning bells.
Bells hung at every corner of ship.
Bells on horse's mane.
Bells rung backward as alarm.
Hut for invalid to prevent noxious odor.
Custom: boasting of sexual prowess.
Woman veils self as expression of surprise.
Pulling a man's beard as an insult.
Fur made of beards of conquered kings.
Cutting off a man's (woman's) hair as an insult.
Rubbing shaved head of hero with cow dung as insult.
Insult: lighting lamp with king's moustache.
Footwashing as sign of reconciliation.
Old person commits suicide when strength fails.
Touching head as sign of acceptance of bargain.
Feet (legs) seized in supplication.
Customs connected with dueling.
Duel: shooting and catching arrows in turn.
Pulling out hair as sign of grief.
Tearing garments as sign of grief.
Mourning customs.
Greeting customs.
Greeting in God's name.
Voyagers have right to ask landsman first question.
Patriotism.
Wolves of his own country dearer than dogs of another.
Mother of invalided soldier says of his limping: "Every step will remind you of your virtue."
Common citizen saves the honor of his country.
Scipio plunges into burning pit to save Rome from destruction.
Roman undertakes to kill Hannibal.
National unity preserved by expulsion of all foreign elements.
Aristotle rises from sick bed to rush into battle for his country.
Aversion to burial in foreign soil.
Patriotism: king learning that nation will triumph whose king dies in battle, allows self to be killed.
Particular nations (races).
Jews.
Diseases (plague) invoked to combat overpopulation.
Hospitality rewarded--opposite punished.
Gods (saints) in disguise reward hospitality and punish inhospitality.
Kind and unkind.
Moderate request rewarded; immoderate punished.
Woodsman and the gold axe.
Lion divides slain bullock.
Humble rewarded, haughty punished.
Laziness punished; industry rewarded.
Lazy jackal punished; industrious pig rewarded.
Lazy owl punished; industrious hummingbird rewarded.
Good thoughts rewarded, bad punished.
Foolishness brings a man to death, quiet calm to fortune.
Deity descends and makes king and wronged subject change places.
Reward for service of god, hero, or ascetic for a period.
Fulfillment of precepts rewarded.
Reward for religious sacrifice.
Old woman gives her only cow believing she would receive a hundred in return from God.
Reward for faith.
Reward for securing converts.
Reward for carrying Christ across a stream.
Boy risks life to carry leper across stream.
Keeping fast rewarded.
Reward for faith: boy doomed to die saved (miraculously).
Reward for religious pilgrimage.
Reward for offering food to crucifix (Madonna).
Reward for saying of prayers.
Reward for austerities of hermit.
Reward for writing hymn.
Reward for repentance.
Reward for confession of sins.
Reward for carrying out dead man's request.
Reward for attendance on holy man.
Piety rewarded--miscellaneous.
Asceticism rewarded.
Politeness rewarded.
Ogre appeased by being called uncle (aunt, etc.).
Reward for cleansing loathsome person.
Generosity rewarded.
Spendthrift knight.
Child divides last loaf with fairy (witch, etc.).
Reward for giving last loaf.
Man who divides his food with beggar is later freed from captivity by him.
Excessive hospitality causes chieftain to become poor.
Reward for providing coffins for poor.
Generosity to saint (god) in disguise rewarded.
Man frees slave (incognito prince): Slave freed as reward for killing enemy's two slaves,
Reward for generosity to king's buffoon.
Reward for tearing out eye when demanded.
Reward for remitting tribute.
Saint gives a man all his credit for good deeds so that the man may go to heaven.
Cobbler gives new pair of shoes to poor boy and says: "You can pay me when you become archbishop."
Reward for giving counsel.
Reward for almsgiving.
Reward to almsgiving monk given in form of restored honor and position.
Man pardoned for short accounts when it is learned that he has given the money to the poor as alms.
One rupee given away for charity incidentally brings back ten rupees.
Hospitality rewarded.
Angels entertained unawares.
Three Nephites give blessings as reward for hospitality.
King refuses to invite Patrick to feast.
Hospitality to saint repaid: Hospitality to devil repaid.
Man saves the unrecognized devil from thunder and is generously rewarded.
Hospitality to ascetic rewarded.
Hospitality to monk rewarded.
Revenge given up as reward for hospitality.
Hospitality repaid by attack on devastating enemy.
Hospitality repaid by magic procuring of provisions.
Reward for protecting fugitive.
Reward for protecting holy fugitive.
Kindness to orphans repaid by dead parents.
Kindness to animals rewarded.
Knight covers foal with his coat to protect it from storm.
Reward for kindness to tiger.
Reward for rescue.
Disguised king rewards rescuer from robbers.
Magic shirt and information about sought robbers as reward for rescue of poor fisherman.
Plenty of fishes as reward for rescue.
Maiden queen offers her hand as reward for rescuing her town.
Maiden gives her hand and riches to man who rescues her from trap.
Uprightness rewarded.
Ruler tries in vain to intimidate judge.
Captive knight freed for having kept his word. Is allowed to leave to collect ransom (or marry
fiancйe).
Reward for sparing life when in animal form.
Love rewarded.
Ruler rewards man's love for his captive wife with riches and freedom.
Ruler rewards captives' love for each other.
Queen rewards love of man of low lineage by making him an ambassador.
Attendance on the sick rewarded.
Reward for shielding Mary in childbirth from gaze of onlookers.
Self-abnegation rewarded.
Monk who did not ask for position made abbot.
Devil spares abbot because of humility.
Reward for ability to keep secrets.
Patience rewarded.
Filial duty rewarded.
Supplying food to ungrateful stepmother rewarded.
Humility rewarded.
Humility before saint (god) in disguise rewarded.
Kingly duty rewarded.
Integrity rewarded.
Truth-speaking rewarded.
Honesty rewarded.
Loyalty rewarded.
Reward for loyalty to king.
Reward for perseverance.
Nobleman's perseverance wins him coveted place on reserved bench.
Reward for fearlessness.
Snake helps girl who permits it to wind itself around her body.
Ferocious animal (lion, tiger, etc.) rewards man who does not fear it.
Reward for marital fidelity.
Reward for wife's fidelity.
Reward for stoic endurance of pain.
Reward for asking proper questions.
Reward for industry.
Reward to ant for industry.
Reward for preservation of chastity.
Ruler marries maiden who has repulsed his advances.
Spurned ruler has the maiden marry highest ranking knight.
Married woman spurns king's offer of marriage.
Spurned suitor is offered girl by her mother.
Courtier rewarded for resisting princess's advances.
Reward for long-suffering nun: made abbess of convent.
Reward for proficiency.
Fra Lippo Lippi is freed by Moors because of his greatness as a painter.
Princess kisses ugly poet while he sleeps.
Reward for cleverness.
Princess given in marriage to clever thief.
King rewards scullion for bon-mot.
King rewards poem.
Answer rewarded with gold ring; message rewarded with purse with silver.
Reward for supernatural help.
Reward for bringing rain.
Reward for resuscitating dead.
Reward for cure.
Reward for musician.
Reward for flute-playing.
Reward fitting to deed.
Reward like deed: liberal and munificent girl blessed with riches and prosperity.
Riches as reward.
Hero made business partner of rich man.
Riches as reward (for hospitality).
Riches as reward for help against robbers.
Gold ring as reward.
Giant gives gold, silver and weapon as reward for good advice.
Treasure as reward.
Jewels as reward.
Large quantity of land as reward.
Half of kingdom as reward.
Kingdom as reward.
Kingdom as reward for piety.
Kingdom as reward for poem.
Kingdom as reward for finding abducted princess.
Half of property as reward.
Two thirds of kingdom as reward for finding abducted princesses.
One third of kingdom and the king's daughter as reward for getting victory-stone during the night.
Kingdom and hand of princess as reward for virtuous life.
Dominion over world as reward.
Reward: royal line of descendants.
Chieftainship as reward.
Reward: sovereignty for hour (day).
Reward: seat next to king.
Knighthood as reward.
High honors as reward.
Appointment to earldom as reward for good advice.
Appointment as page as reward.
High position as reward for piety.
Appointment to priesthood as reward.
Institution of priests and Levites as reward for observance of Sabbath.
Gifts as reward.
Gifts made to advisor.
Precious knife and belt as gift on unknown helper's spearshaft outside his tent.
Gifts as rewards for gifts.
Sword as reward.
Reward: any boon that may be asked.
Reward: any boon that may be asked--king's wife demanded.
King promises daughter she may marry anyone she desires.
Reward: any boon that may be asked--man asks only for son.
Favorable decree as reward.
Favorable decree as reward for helping holy person.
Freedom as reward.
Slaves freed as reward.
Wine as reward.
Reward: man's cows magically multiply.
Monks' who always shared with the poor receive supplies of flour or bread.
Plentiful game animals (fish) as reward.
Magic treasure as reward for humility.
Superior rebirth as reward.
Reward: hearing voice of God.
Hermit as reward for austerities hears voice of God.
Miraculously long life as reward.
Reward: happiness during last year of life.
Miraculously long life as reward for hospitality.
Health as reward for drink.
Miraculously long life as reward for integrity.
Reward: end of plague.
Supernatural manifestations at death of pious person.
Body of saint miraculously rolls over to make room in his grave for pious man.
Pope who has warred on wicked nobles refused burial in church.
Death by kiss from God.
Miraculous or magic reward--miscellaneous.
Color (of animal) as reward for pious act.
Rescue from deluge as reward.
Lot and family rewarded by being saved from destruction of city.
Loss of all evil and corruption as reward.
Life spared as reward.
Charitable man's death postponed.
Death passes by man who fed his stepmother.
Hospitable person saved from death.
Faithful old dog threatened with death proves his worth and is spared.
Humble man miraculously saved from drowning.
Life spared as reward for hospitality.
Life spared as reward for uprightness.
Life spared as reward for bravery and constancy.
Resurrection as reward.
Honest brahman spared by tiger.
Man saved from lions as reward.
Pot of boiling oil thrown at compassionate woman does not harm her.
Women rewarded with their lives for excellent dancing.
City saved from disaster as reward.
Hospitality of a citizen saves a city from destruction.
Nature benign and fruitful during reign of good king.
Cows white-headed during reign of good king.
Immunity from death by violence as reward.
Descendants of man who endured pain without crying out not to meet violent deaths.
Victory as reward for piety.
Escape of hostages miraculously prevented as reward for piety.
Healing as reward.
Sight restored as reward.
Healing of disease as reward.
Hunchback healed as reward for kindness.
Invulnerability as reward for pious act.
Immunity from punishment for sin as reward.
Forgiveness of sin for acts of charity.
Husband forgiven for having killed jealous wife: builds monastery and becomes monk in it.
Reward: admission to heaven.
Fairy minstrel asks admission to heaven as reward for playing for saint.
Rewards in heaven.
Child taken to heaven: offers food to crucifix.
Man admitted to heaven for single act of charity.
The rich man's trial in heaven.
Man admitted to heaven as reward for penance.
Palace being built in heaven for pious king.
Rooms in heaven are prepared for good man in heaven.
Numerous sinners to go to heaven as reward for man's writing hymn.
Heaven as reward for renouncement of long life.
Man admitted to heaven for remitting tribute.
Mother of saint admitted to heaven.
Saint goes to heaven every Thursday.
Deification as reward.
Saint made judge of doom for men of Ireland (as reward).
Reward: release from hell.
Release from hell as reward for repentance.
Saint's requests for releasing souls from hell.
Saint requests that on Doomsday he may bring out of hell, for every hair of his chasuble, seven condemned souls.
God grants to saint the boon that no one buried in any of his churches shall go to hell.
God grants to saint the boon that two persons are to be rescued from hell by him "to the end of the world."
Saint requests that any person appealing to him at death shall escape hell.
Reward: holy person to be buried and resurrected in one place.
God gives "peace and favorable weather" in consequence of enactment of good law.
Family line of good man rewarded.
Child given as reward for prayer.
Crowns and palms as reward.
Blessings.
Criminal intent punished.
Murder punished.
God revenges murder after thirty years.
Enormity of kin murder.
Emperor punished for his many murders.
Parricide punished.
Matricide punished.
Uxoricide punished.
Murder of children punished.
Queen expelled for poisoning stepson.
Woman murders son's wives.
Suicide punished.
Killing an animal revenged.
Punishment for flaying live calf.
Punishment for killing sacred whale.
Punishment for splitting head and eating man's brains.
Punishment for desire to murder.
Wounded king exacts fine from those intending to slay him.
Fratricide punished.
God punishes murder of brother-in-law by having murderer's male heirs die.
Punishment for killing foster brother.
Punishment for murder of co-wife.
Punishment for wholesale massacre of tribe.
Murder of parents punished by member of family.
Slave killed who killed enemy at owner's order.
Theft punished.
Theft from dwarf (witch) revenged.
Grave-robbing punished.
Punishment of theft: origin of sweating.
Stolen animal's meat impossible to cook.
Abduction punished.
Cannibalism punished.
Treason punished.
Devil plagues impious people.
Devil takes shape of old woman to punish impious nuns.
Personal offences against gods punished.
Discourtesy to god punished.
Discourtesy to messengers of the Gods punished.
Punishment for opposition to Christ at crucifixion.
Blasphemy punished.
Seaman who defies God shipwrecked.
Dam builder remarks that God Almighty could not sweep completed dam away.
Man vows to recover loose boat or go to hell trying.
Party of horsemen detained by bad weather vow to reach town whether God will or no.
Disobedience to God punished.
Lack of trust in God punished.
Doubt of veracity of goddess' statement punished.
Theft from water-deity punished.
Punishment for desecration of holy places (images, etc.) Stone in church sheds blood to foretell coming plunder of
church.
Miraculous flow of blood from desecrated building or object.
Punishment for desecration of host.
Renegade priest punished by death for allowing heathen to defile the host.
Punishment for heaping indignities upon crucifix.
Foul portrayal of Jesus on the Cross brings punishment to the artist and the man responsible.
Magic storm as punishment for profaning of temple.
Punishment for desecrating church (shrine, idol).
Stones fall in churchyard, punish desecrators of church.
Magic storm as punishment for desecrating of temple.
Bold woman who danced naked in church is stricken with leprosy.
Thieves who attempt to steal from churches or shrines are miraculously rendered powerless to get out, and walk in a circle.
Desecrated church burned by burning straw carried by sparrow.
Hand stuck for beating an idol.
Punishment for desecration of holy temple utensils.
Punishment for neglect of services to gods (God).
Neglect to pray punished.
Neglect to thank gods punished.
Neglect to sacrifice punished.
Neglect to hear confessional punished.
Priest joins devils after death because he lets woman die without confession.
Neglect to attend church punished.
Failure to observe holiness of Sabbath punished.
Punishment for neglect of mass.
Virgin Mary appears to lady who neglected to hear mass.
Failure to do penance punished.
Neglect to fast punished.
Neglect to fast punished by sight of dragon ready to carry man off to hell.
Musician flogged for eating a kid on Friday (day of fast).
Neglect to study scriptures punished.
Neglect to study Tora punished.
Failure to circumcise child punished.
Failure to finish period of mourning punished.
Neglect of clerical duties punished.
Monk neglecting to prostrate self at canonical hours expelled from monastery by saint and dies on seventh day.
Punishment (fine) for not giving benediction on finished work.
Punishment for failure to give customary offering to gods.
Punishment for betraying confessional.
Punishment for scoffing at religious teachings.
Heresy punished.
Punishment for denying pagan gods.
Punishment for doubting Buddha's religion.
Punishment for leaving holy orders.
Hermit leaving his cell to become robber falls and breaks his neck.
Mutinous clerics expelled in shapes of swine.
Punishment for opposition to holy person.
Punishment for slaying king under holy protection.
Punishment for imprisoning person under holy protection.
Punishment for looking at saint's corpse.
Saint (hero) drives chariot over person who displeases him.
Punishment for trying to harm sacred animal.
Brahmin punished for killing animal.
Punishment for change of religious faith.
Pagan punished by fellows for conversion to Christianity.
Punishment of Jew for apostasy.
Punishment for leaving Palestine.
Punishment for yielding to temptation by the devil.
Cursing punished.
Man put in moon for cursing God.
Punishment for deceiving (divine) emperor.
Idolatry punished.
Adultery punished.
Desire to commit adultery punished.
Lover refuses to take back unfaithful paramour.
Incest punished.
Cohabitation of godfather and godmother punished.
Father-daughter incest punished.
Punishment for man who makes advances to sister-in-law.
Father of incestuous children punished.
Incontinence punished--miscellaneous.
Punishment by extinction of royal line for sexual incontinence.
Suspected incontinence unjustly punished.
Prostitution punished.
Harlot punished by being burned (in hell).
Punishment for forcing a girl to become prostitute.
Seduction punished.
Attempted seduction punished.
Punishment for taking concubine.
Punishment for taking heathen wives.
Punishment for consorting with one of lower class.
Tiger instead of girl in box tears lecherous teacher to pieces.
Punishment for ravisher.
Ravisher is forced to marry girl and then is executed.
Punishment for attempted rape.
Knight who ravished nun captured when she miraculously appears before him on his horse and holds reins until he is taken.
Prostitute with venereal disease sent to lecherous king.
Punishment for refusal to marry after girl is pregnant.
Mortal's attempt to defile goddess punished.
Goddess killed for infidelity with mortal.
Punishment for desertion of fairy mistress.
Punishment for banishing wife at wish of paramour.
Punishment for refusal to have children.
Punishment for abortion.
Punishment for breaking betrothal.
Wife stealing punished with death.
Sodomy punished.
Sodomy punished by death.
Sodomist rebuked by youth.
Bestiality punished.
Homosexuality punished.
Girl punished for becoming pregnant.
Punishment of woman who prefers mortal lover to gods.
Punishment for clandestine lover of princess.
Refusal of conjugal relations punished.
Treachery punished.
Intended treachery punished.
Treacherous wife punished.
Treacherous wife abandoned by lover for fear of treachery.
Impostor punished.
Lying (perjury) punished.
Death as punishment for perjury.
False judging punished.
Bribed false judge punished.
Unjust judges punished in hell.
Punishment for (undeserved) satire.
Blotches on face of satirist (judge) as punishment for wrongful satire (judgment).
Judge must yield bench to son because he had made a false judgment.
Punishment for undeserved curse.
Punishment for breaking promise.
Man promises more to church than he can possibly provide: punished.
Hypocrisy punished.
Devil comes for hypocrite.
Flattery punished.
Debtor punished.
Debtor deprived of burial.
Devil condemns rich man who does not repent until ready to die.
Woman on visit to world of dead may not return until she pays debt to dead.
Avarice punished.
Devil carries off rich man.
Devil carries off rich man at death.
Avaricious man has neck broken when top of his treasure chest falls on him.
Avaricious miser tries to eat his adored money and chokes to death.
Avaricious woman and her gold consumed by hell's fires which burn in her grave.
Usury punished.
Devil comes for usurer.
Dead usurer fed molten silver by devil.
Usurer refused burial.
Usurer punished in hell.
Church built by usurer's money made to collapse by devil.
Swindler punished.
Devils carry away stones of church built with ill-gotten money.
Devil suffocates swindling merchant.
Use of false weights and measures punished.
Remover of landmarks punished.
Stinginess punished.
Covetousness punished.
Ingratitude punished.
Ungrateful children punished.
Devils carry off girl who abuses her mother.
Girl cruel to her mother is slain by God.
Ungrateful ruler is deposed.
Woman eats flesh and leaves cat only bones of fish cat has caught for them.
Ungrateful king raises old woman's rent; miraculous punishment.
Irreverent young people punished by outraged old man.
Reproach concerning physical deformity (blemish) punished.
Cruelty punished.
Cruelty to animals punished.
Punishment for cutting off bird's tongue.
Man slits tongue of magpie so that it can learn to speak.
Punishment for breaking bird's nest.
Boy reaches into bird's nest for pigeon's eggs.
Cruelty to sick persons punished.
Cruel mutilation punished.
Slave-driving punished.
Uncharitableness punished.
Uncharitableness to holy person punished.
Priest will not bury dead unless paid in advance.
Refusal to grant request punished.
Punishment for mockery.
Hard-heartedness punished.
St. Peter's mother dropped from heaven because of hardheartedness.
Punishment of hard-hearted masters in other world.
Inhospitality punished.
Inhospitality to saint (god) punished.
Inhospitality to orphans punished.
Abuse of hospitality punished.
Monkey destroys nest of bird who has made sport of him.
Injustice punished.
Sack of flour pushed down on peasant who accuses his wife of theft from it.
Slander punished.
Jealousy punished.
Envy punished.
Envy punished: the found purse.
Scolding punished.
War-making punished.
Quarrelsomeness punished.
Fault-finding punished.
Punishment for finding fault with God's works in heaven.
Devil carries off fault-finding people.
Punishment for finding fault with God's forgiveness of sin.
Fault-finding with God's handling of weather.
Bad temper punished.
Scandal-mongering punished.
Laziness punished.
Women who will not sew are cast from community.
Dirtiness punished.
Unthriftiness punished.
Disobedience punished.
Impudence punished.
Discourtesy punished.
Pride punished.
Devil torments old man who has laid aside his humility.
Vanity punished.
Woman's vain display punished.
Devil impersonates woman's maid at her toilette.
Vain woman has her cheeks miraculously burned.
Husband rubs off paint from wife's cheeks.
Husband puts soot on wife's cheeks to discourage her from using paint.
Vain woman wears corset so tight that it stifles her to death.
Clothes-proud woman trips over long skirt.
Jackal demands to be praised as god: runs with pack of hounds.
Boldness punished.
"God has no use for me, and the devil will not take me." Immoderate request punished.
Request for immortality punished by transformation into tree.
The devil's likeness.
Curiosity punished.
Inquisitiveness punished.
Punishment for gambling.
Captured animals avenge themselves.
Dancing punished.
Devil punishes girl who loves to dance.
Drunken dancers punished.
Jesting punished.
Devil carries off jester.
Freemasonry punished.
Freemasons forced to dance till they sweat blood.
Punishment for singing worldly songs.
Prince of devils gives up seat to man who goes to hell for singing worldly songs.
Punishment of evil magician who has caused plague.
Evil speech punished.
Punishment for talking too much.
Gossiping punished.
Uxoriousness punished.
Disrespect punished.
Chain of punishments.
Punishment of children for parents' offenses.
Punishment not meted out to persons below twenty years.
Punishment comes in seventh generation.
Death as punishment.
Husband kills returning adulteress.
Adulterer killed.
Man (fairy) kills wife's lover.
Faithless wife (mistress) seized by husband's (lover's) poet, who leaps to death with her in his arms.
Death for repeated adultery.
Husband kills wife and paramour.
Punishment: winning as wife and then killing.
Undesired suitor hiding under girl's bed is killed.
Undesired suitor killed asleep in his tent.
Death of father (son, etc.) as punishment.
Death as punishment for treachery.
Man killed at once for treacherously slaying overlord.
Woman who disrobes to attract attention of hostile fighter killed.
Hero kills mutilators of girl.
Death as punishment for murder.
Death as punishment for ravisher.
A man in every house in the land killed as punishment for abduction by their king.
Death as punishment for reproach concerning physical deformity (blemish).
Death as punishment for impudence.
Man killed because of scornful singing.
Death as punishment for desecration of holy places (images, etc.).
Desecrating a sanctuary (saint's house) by murder punished.
Hanging as punishment for stealing from a church.
Maidens slain in revenge for deaths of young men.
Death as punishment for thievery.
Charge of theft avenged by assault.
Death as punishment for spying on uncanny persons.
Death as punishment for dropping on emperor's coat.
Punishment: millstone dropped on guilty person.
Punishment: hanging.
Threat of hanging.
Hanging as punishment for theft.
Hanging as punishment for adultery.
Hanging as punishment for imposture.
Hanging as punishment for murder.
Hanging as punishment for impudence.
Impudent suitor or his messenger hanged or threatened with hanging.
Hanging as punishment for denying pagan gods.
Hanging as punishment for silence about hidden treasure.
Hanging as punishment for treachery.
Hanging by one foot as punishment for treachery.
Punishment: burning alive.
Burning as punishment for uxoricide.
Burning as punishment for adultery.
Burning as punishment for incest (incontinence).
Burning monastery and monks in it as punishment for incontinence.
Burning as punishment for ravisher.
Ravisher's grave and body miraculously burnt.
Burning as punishment for abductor.
Burning as punishment for traitor.
Burning for traitor: unwittingly suggested by culprit.
Burning as punishment for impostor.
Burning as punishment for counterfeiting.
Innocent queen burned at stake.
Demons burn heretics at stake.
Burning as punishment for betraying the confessional.
Burning for witchcraft.
Burning for sodomy.
Burning as punishment for murder.
Woman saved from being burned as punishment for killing impudent suitor.
Burning as punishment for fratricide.
Punishment: boiling in oil (lead, tar).
Boiling in tar as punishment for impostor.
Punishment: imprisonment in white-hot iron house.
Punishment: burning and scattering ashes.
Punishment: crushing in rice mill and scattering ashes.
Punishment: dancing to death in red-hot shoes.
Punishment: king hung between two fires.
Woman cast on husband's funeral pyre as punishment.
Punishment: being eaten by animals.
Punishment: being eaten by demon.
Punishment: being eaten by dogs.
Punishment: transformation to deer which is devoured by dogs.
Punishment: tying man to horses and setting vicious hounds after him.
Mice devour hard-hearted man.
Punishment: man eaten by worms (snake).
Cobras placed in boxes and given to cruel parents, so that they are bitten.
Punishment: being fed to lions (wild beasts).
Punishment: being devoured by tiger.
Bears devour the wicked.
Wolves kill person for quenching holy fire.
Wolves and birds eat bodies of slayers of poet.
Heretic preaching against God's creation worried to death by fly.
Punishment: being eaten by fish.
Punishment: drawing asunder by horses.
Quartering by horses as punishment for breaking betrothal.
Quartering by horses as punishment for murder.
Quartering by horses as punishment for uxoricide.
Quartering by horses as punishment for impostor.
Punishment: trampling (kicking) to death by horses.
Adulteress kicked to death by mule as punishment.
Punishment: dragging to death by a horse.
Punishment: drawing at the tails of horses.
Punishment: dragging to death tied to horns of a bull.
Punishment: trampling by elephants.
Punishment: being gored to death by elephant.
Punishment: dropping and dashing to pieces.
Murderess forced to leap from cliff.
Traitor thrown into pit so that he sticks to the waist and is then chased out of the country.
Bridge to world of dead cut from under wicked person so that he falls into hell.
Punishment by poisoning.
Murder of faithless wife with poisoned salad.
Venomous snake put into the mouth as punishment for murder of newborn children.
Punishment: beheading.
Beheading as punishment for debt.
Beheading as punishment for adultery.
Beheading as punishment for rape.
Beheading as punishment for murder.
Beheading as punishment for mutilation.
Beheading as punishment for incest.
Beheading as punishment for seduction.
Beheading for persecution of wife.
Heads on stakes.
Head cut off and hung on tree outside village.
Man beheaded in place where he turned his back on saint.
Punishment: cutting throat.
Punishment: stoning to death.
Punishment: beating to death.
Punishment: breaking upon a wheel.
Punishment: strangling.
Strangling as punishment for murder.
King strangles falcon when it kills eagle.
Strangling as punishment for adultery.
Man strangles friar for attempting to seduce his wife.
Punishment: suffocating.
Wolf cut open and filled with stones as punishment.
Punishment for murder by fatal enema.
Punishment: opening own veins and bleeding to death.
Punishment: drowning.
Drowning as punishment for adultery.
Magic swine cause robbers to be drowned.
Drowning as punishment for disturbing holy person.
Capital punishment--miscellaneous.
Punishment: culprit eaten by cannibals.
Death at hands of foreign invaders as punishment.
Cutting into pieces as punishment.
Punishment: squeezing to death.
Imposition of tabu as punishment.
Punishment: banishment (exile).
Saint prefers to die in exile.
Voluntary exile as punishment for murder.
Banishment for treachery.
Elder brothers banished for treachery.
Treachery punished by banishment to desert isle.
King's foster brothers banished for lawlessness.
Banishment because of disobedience.
Banishment till rose grows from table for preventing childbirth.
Banishment for seduction.
Banishment for attempted seduction.
Banishment for abduction of bride (girl).
Princes banished as punishment for lewd conduct with female subjects.
Banishment for rape.
Banishment for imposture.
Banishment as punishment for adultery.
Banishment as punishment for incest.
Banishment for murder.
Banishment for attempted murder.
Exile as punishment for parricide.
Banishment for assault on king's tax collectors.
Banishment as punishment for breach of faith with animals.
Banishment as punishment for fault-finding.
Banishment for desecration of holy places.
Berserks banished because of defeat.
Banishment as punishment for robbery.
Boy banished for breaking women's water pots.
Banishment for lying.
Banishment for association with those of another faith.
Banishment for laziness.
Punishment: ejectment.
Buzzard hatched by hawk ejected for fouling nest.
Adulteress ejected into street clad only in her shirt.
Punishment: imprisonment.
Imprisonment for adultery.
Adulteress confined in a cage.
Defeated giants imprisoned in lower world.
Zeus has embassy of dogs imprisoned for fouling his court.
Imprisonment for imposture.
Imprisonment for attempted seduction.
Priest imprisoned for incontinence.
Imprisonment for treachery.
Imprisonment for gambling.
Wicked son confined on island.
Earl hunting in the king's forest imprisoned.
Undesired suitor's messengers imprisoned.
Punishment: abridgment of freedom till extravagant boast is confirmed.
War prisoners shut up between stones.
Punishment: fettering.
Adulteress and paramour fettered.
War prisoners fettered.
Fettering to oak.
Magic imprisonment in cleft tree.
Excommunication from religious association as punishment.
Sale into slavery as punishment.
Criminal's wife and children sold into slavery.
Punishment: abandonment in forest.
Torture as punishment.
Torture as punishment for murder.
Mutilation as punishment.
Hands and feet cut off as punishment.
Threat to cut off hand or foot.
Strong girl breaks impudent suitor's right hand and left foot.
Hands and feet cut off as punishment for robbery.
Hands cut off as punishment.
Hand cut off as punishment for theft.
Hand cut off for contempt of court.
Hand cut off for treachery.
Hand cut off (falls off) as punishment for murder.
Hand cut off as punishment for fornication.
Arms cut off as punishment for adultery.
Right hands cut off enemy's messengers.
Arms cut off as punishment for slandering.
Laming as punishment.
Limbs cut off (drop off) as punishment.
Boring hole through heel as punishment.
Hamstringing as punishment.
Youth lamed by man whose daughter he refuses to marry.
Feet cut off as punishment for theft.
Foot cut off as punishment for murder.
Legs cut off as punishment for adultery.
Loss of speech as punishment.
Dumbness as punishment for hiding children.
Dumbness as punishment for lying.
Dumbness as punishment for opposition to holy person.
Son stricken dumb as punishment for father's opposition to holy person.
Dumbness as punishment for blasphemy.
Tongue cut off as punishment.
Tongue cut off as punishment for theft.
Tongue cut out as punishment for gossip.
Tongue cut off as punishment for incest.
Tongue cut off as punishment for treachery.
Tongue cut out as punishment for murder.
Tongue cut out as punishment for fault-finding (satire).
Man pulls out his own tongue in remorse.
Tongue cut off as punishment for alleged adultery.
Tongue cut (bitten) off as punishment for unfaithfulness to wife.
Hanging by tongue as punishment.
Punishment: stretching tongue to enormous length.
Nose cut off as punishment.
Nose cut off as punishment for adultery.
Mistress's nose cut off as punishment for faithlessness.
Nose cut off as punishment for theft.
Nose of falsely accusing bishop bitten off.
Nose cut off as punishment for treachery.
Ears cut off as punishment.
Girl (fairy) bites off ear of ravisher.
Ears cut off as punishment for adultery.
Ear cut off as punishment for theft.
Blinding as punishment.
Loss of one eye as punishment.
Miraculous blindness as punishment.
Miraculous blindness as punishment for opposition to holy person.
Miraculous blindness as punishment for theft.
Miraculous blindness as punishment for disobedience.
Miraculous blindness as punishment for criminal intent.
Miraculous blindness as punishment for spying (on druids, fairies, witches, etc.).
Blinding as punishment for perjury.
Blinding as punishment for ravisher.
Blinding (of father) as punishment for ravisher.
Blinding as punishment for attempt to violate girl (queen).
Blinding as punishment for incest.
Blinding as punishment for murder.
Wicked son blinded.
Punishment: thong of leather cut from back.
Punishment: woman's breasts cut off.
Punishment: woman suspended by her breasts.
Punishment: genitalia cut off.
Punishment: castration.
Piecemeal mutilation as punishment.
Deception punished by piecemeal mutilation.
Lips sewed together as punishment for slander.
Punishment: head split into many pieces.
Adulteress's pregnant belly pierced with pounder.
Punishment: snake sucks woman's breasts.
Punishment: being bitten by animal.
Punishment: being bitten by ants.
Punishment: being bitten by scorpion.
Walling up as a punishment.
Walling up as punishment for murder of children.
Walling up as punishment for adultery.
Adulteress walled up with corpse of paramour.
Adulteress confined in room containing the corpse of her paramour.
Burial alive as punishment.
Burial alive as punishment for adultery.
Burial alive as punishment for swindling.
Burial alive as punishment for disobedience to king.
Punishment: burial alive up to the breast (neck).
Cast-forth wife buried up to the waist for seven years and despitefully used.
Burial alive for uncharitableness.
Flaying alive as punishment.
Flaying alive as punishment for contesting with a god.
Devil flays impious person.
Flaying alive as punishment for adultery.
Flaying alive as punishment for opposition to holy person.
Flogging as punishment.
Flogging as punishment for adultery.
Flogging as punishment for disobedience to rulers.
Flogging as punishment for theft.
Flogging as punishment for imposture.
Flogging as punishment for reviling church.
Flogging as punishment for desire to commit adultery.
Daily beatings as punishment.
Flogging to death as punishment.
Brother flogs unchaste sister to death.
Flogging to death as punishment for theft.
Flogging to death as punishment for seduction.
Impalement as punishment.
Impalement as punishment for faithlessness.
Bodies from which limbs have been cut hung on stakes as punishment.
Impaling as punishment for adultery.
Crucifixion as punishment.
Punishment: nailing to pillar.
Punishment by hanging up by the feet.
Spiked-cask punishment.
Covering with honey and exposing to flies.
Throwing into a pit as punishment.
Throwing into pit of snakes as punishment.
Prisoners put into pit filled with corpses in order to starve.
Punishment: pushing into well.
Punishment: throwing into water-filled lime pit.
Embarkation in leaky vessel as punishment.
Embarkation in rudderless boat as punishment.
Punishment: setting adrift in boat.
Husband substitutes leaky vessel so that his wife and paramour are drowned.
Punishment: abandonment on cliff that is submerged at high tide.
Punishment by drowning.
Casting into water in sack (barrel) as punishment.
Thief cast into water in a sack containing a cock, a snake, and a monkey.
Punishment: drowning in swamp.
Punishment: sea-spell chanted by druidess causes rival to drown.
Man thrown into waterfall as punishment for alleged violating of princess.
Marooning as punishment.
Other cruel punishments.
Adulteress caused to fall down stairs from which steps have been removed.
Punishment: climbing red-hot rod.
Punishment: grinding up in a mill.
Punishment: millstone hung around neck.
Punishment: choking with smoke.
Heart and liver of murderer torn out.
Heart of murderer cut out.
Heart and liver of son to be torn out.
Punishment: twisting entrails from body.
Man fettered with the entrails of his own sons as punishment for treachery.
Punishment: sawing in twain.
Punishment: boring hot irons through ears.
Punishment: tearing off flesh with hot pincers.
Punishment: piercing with needles.
Scalding as punishment.
Scalding as punishment for attempted seduction.
Scalding as punishment for theft.
Scalding as punishment for insult.
Baby son hurled into battle as punishment for desertion of fairy mistress.
Murderer torn limb from limb.
Hands in cleft log as punishment.
Spitting in face as punishment.
Persecuted queen meanly clothed and set where all are commanded to spit on her.
Beggar avenges self on queen who spits at him by disguising as prince and spitting in her face.
Branding as punishment.
Punishment: disgraceful journey through streets.
Insolvent debtor drawn through streets.
Corpse of adulteress drawn through streets.
Punishment: riding through street on bull.
Adulteress ridden through street on bull.
Punishment: tying to horse's tail.
Wife's paramour tied to horse's tail and conducted through streets.
Seducer, who had disguised as woman, is led naked through streets.
Importunate lover put asleep in street.
Punishment: sending out of town on donkeys.
Punishment: shaving head and covering with tar and driving forth on back of donkey to sound of drum.
Riding backwards on donkey as punishment.
Punishment: princess to display self on roof.
"Cucking-stool" as punishment.
Tar and feathers as punishment.
Tar and feathers as punishment for vanity.
Shower of pitch as punishment.
Exposing mistress's person (excepting face) to her husband (paramour's friends).
Frightful meal as punishment.
The Eaten Heart.
Man sends his daughter the heart of her lover.
Adulteress made to drink from paramour's skull.
Adulteress forced to eat out of lover's skull.
Adulteress punished by having skeleton of her former paramour hang in her room.
Adulteress forced to have lover's head before her at meals.
Adulteress compelled to eat with dog.
Adulteress compelled to eat a dog's leavings.
Punishment: using fat rendered from daughter's mutilated corpse to cook with and to light candles.
Punishment: eating ashes instead of food.
Punishment: eating ashes (coal) mixed with food.
Princess (queen) compelled to keep an inn.
Punishment: noble person must do menial service.
Princess serves as menial.
Second wife (slave) must serve as menial.
Queen placed in kitchen and abused by butcher.
Queen forced to do menial service rescued by son.
Queen ordered to go and live in woodcutter's house as servant.
Nobleman after death must serve as menial.
Cast-forth wife must sit at horse-block of palace and tell story to each newcomer and offer to carry him inside.
Queen made to scare crows away in fields.
Punishment: man must do women's work.
Princess must sell goods on market as punishment.
Condemned queen exposed in leather on market place.
Husband fondles second wife in presence of first as punishment for adultery.
Noble person must live in hovel.
Princess married to lowly hero must live in slave quarters.
Criminal's property destroyed as punishment.
Criminal's house burned down.
Sinful city burnt as punishment.
Adulteress forced to wear symbolic dress.
Cutting hair as punishment.
Lying goat punished by being half-shorn.
Head shaved as punishment.
Indignity to corpse as punishment.
Disgraceful burial as punishment.
Swindler buried on dungheap.
Burial in deserted barn as punishment for desecration of holy places.
Debtor's corpse flogged.
Devil beats wicked man's corpse.
Toads and snakes devour corpse of rich man in his grave.
Skull used as drinking cup.
Corpse of murderer mutilated.
Murderer's corpse cut into pieces.
Punishment: throwing dead body into river.
Woman must relight magic fires as punishment.
Punishment: being saddled and ridden as horse.
Adulteress transformed to mare and stirruped.
Loss of social position as punishment.
Line of kingship taken from king who defies saint.
Uncharitable king loses power.
Removal from priesthood as punishment.
Punishment: unseemly exposure of body.
Lazy wife taken naked in bundle of straw to a wedding.
Beard shaved as punishment for murder.
Moustache pulled out as punishment.
Other humiliating punishments.
Humiliating kiss as punishment.
Humiliation through kissing a leper as punishment.
Humiliating death as punishment.
Humiliating death as punishment for adultery.
Humiliating death as punishment for taking concubine.
Sacrament refused as punishment for desecration of holy place.
Satirizing as punishment for refusal to grant request.
Satirizing as punishment for breaking treaty.
Debtor clerics forbidden churchly offices.
Penance for three years and a half for eating horseflesh.
Humiliating marriage as punishment.
Humiliating penance: king to rub nose five times on red hot griddle.
Unremitting torture as punishment.
Punishment of Sisyphus.
Punishment of Tantalus.
When hungry man tries to gather fruit it flies out of his reach.
Punishment: delicious food always fills with maggots just as man is about to eat it.
Punishment of Loki.
Punishment of Prometheus.
Punishment of Ixion.
Punishment of Io.
Unremittent thirst as punishment.
Salt food without drink as punishment for man who accepts Christianity.
Ceaseless humming (singing) as punishment for immoderate request.
Spirit in hell must bathe people endlessly.
Wandering as a punishment.
The Wandering Jew.
Punishment: wandering till iron shoes are worn out.
Tribe's long wandering in wilderness as punishment.
Wandering after death as punishment.
Skull of suicide must roll in dust until it has saved a life.
Punishment: carrying corpse of murdered man.
Punishment: carrying corpse of murdered man until stone as long as murdered man is found.
Punishment: carrying corpse of murdered man until another can be induced to take it.
Punishment: performing impossible task.
Performing impossible task as punishment for murder.
Punishment: filling leaky vessels with water from a bottomless jar.
Punishment: binding together sand and string.
Punishment: ridding country of pests.
Substitutions for penances.
Murderer does penance.
Robber does penance.
Life-long penance for brother-sister marriage.
King who loved to give death sentence accepts penance of always postponing sentence until thirty days period of examination has passed.
Penance in wilderness as punishment for men who left holy orders to marry.
Warrior retires to a cloister which he later defends against robbers.
Tedious penances.
Doing penance till green leaves grow on a dry branch.
Penance: crawling on knees and watering a dry staff until it blooms.
Penance: carrying water in mouth from a distance and watering dry staff until it blooms.
Penance: carrying bag of stones (one for each murder) on the back until it falls off.
Penance: carrying iron hoop on head until it falls off.
Penance: pasturing black sheep until they become white.
Penance: ferryman setting people over a stream until relieved by another.
Penance: holding midnight mass until someone will make responses.
Penance to be done until seven spires of Benares are reduced to powder and rebuilt.
Self-torture as penance.
Self-crucifixion as penance.
Penance: killing oneself with wooden knife.
Penance: creeping naked through thorns.
Penance: pilgrimage with hands and loins weighted with iron.
Penance: iron band forged round a man's waist.
Penance: hanging for a thousand years head downward over a fire of chaff.
Penance: wearing friar's cord about bare skin.
Penance: man wears huge serpent coiled around him in lieu of clothing.
Humiliating penances.
Penance: crawling to Rome on knees.
Penance: crawling to grave on knees.
Penance: walking on all-fours like beast.
Penance: eating food offered to dogs.
Penance: living under stairs as mendicant.
Penance: planting garden and offering free hospitality to all.
Penance: slain cats, dogs, etc. to be hung up and covered with grain by man who has killed them.
Penance: seven years' service for seven days' neglect of religious duty.
Penance: performing all services asked for by anyone.
Penance: king to take off crown and lick spittle from ground.
Penance: fasting in sackcloth and ashes.
Fearful penances.
Penance: spending lonely night in cave.
Penance: lying the first night with every corpse brought to certain church.
Dangerous penances.
Penance: staying on rock in dashing sea.
Pilgrimage as penance.
Penance: inviting one Brahmin for dinner every Wednesday.
Negative penances.
Penance: not to speak.
Penance: lioness foregoes meat.
Refraining from sexual intercourse as penance.
Lone fasting as penance.
Penance: resisting temptation.
Penance: adulteress masks as monk and lives chastely in monastery.
Cleric tempts self among beautiful women, lives chastely.
Sitting (standing) in uncomfortable position as penance.
Penance: sitting in water.
Standing in (Jordan and Tigris) rivers as penance (by Adam and Eve).
Penance: standing in water for forty days.
Penance: Gregory on the stone.
Penance: keeping self suspended on two iron hooks placed under armpits.
Penance: staying for ten months rooted to one spot, with eyes closed, while birds build nests in one's hair.
Penance: giving all earnings to poor.
Penance: being locked in cellar (well) with key thrown into water.
Murderer's penance complete when he kills a greater murderer and prevents a crime.
Supernatural manifestations at death of wicked person.
Magic manifestations as punishments.
Undutiful son punished by toad clinging to face.
Betel-nut grows upon a person's knee as a punishment.
Punishment: animal skin grows on man's back.
Magic adhesion to object as punishment (for opposition to holy person).
Miraculous adhesion of objects to human hand as punishment for working on holy day.
Thief rendered unable to remove burden of stolen goods from his back.
Corpse of murdered man sticks to murderer's back.
Instrument or tool for unlawful work becomes attached to person holding it.
Sacrilege and blasphemy punished by magic adhesion.
Priest's concubine is unable to rise from stone.
Punishment for stinginess: bundle of fuel (pitcher of lime) sticks to man's head.
Punishment for cupidity: rich man's foot caught in church door:
Punishment: transformation.
Punishment: transformation of lovers into lion and lioness for desecrating temple.
Punishment: transformation into animal.
Punishment: Loki's son transformed into wolf which tears his brother to pieces.
Punishment: woman transformed into bird.
Punishment: transformation into frog.
Punishment: transformation into monkey.
Punishment: man transformed to a mass of worms.
Punishment: transformation to ass.
Punishment: transformation to dog.
Punishment: transformation to calf.
Punishment: calf's head in murderer's hand turns to corpse's head.
Punishment: melon in murderer's hand turns to murdered man's head.
Transformation to stone as punishment.
Scoffers turned to stone by saint.
Man curses wind; he is turned to stone, along with sack from which he is sowing.
Nun breaks her vow.
Punishment: transformation into other object.
Punishment: transformation into falling star.
Punishment: transformation into tree.
Punishment: animals become sick.
Punishment: horses become sick.
Reincarnation as punishment.
Reincarnation into degraded form as punishment.
Punishment: man reborn as girl.
Punishment: king and queen reborn as children of scavenger.
Dying priest looks greedily on ripe plum: is reincarnated as insect feeding within plum.
Magic sickness as punishment.
Punishment: men stricken with leprosy.
Punishment: death from unknown disease before end of three days for having obtained food by force from monastery.
Magic sickness as punishment for lying (perjury).
Magic sickness as punishment for opposition to holy person.
Magic sickness as punishment for tanning shoes with bark from saint's tree.
Magic sickness as punishment for ingratitude.
Magic sickness as punishment for theft.
Magic sickness as punishment for desecration of holy places (images, etc.).
Magic manifestation: blood flows suddenly from mouth of blasphemer.
Magic manifestation: eyes fall out of head of blasphemer.
Emaciation caused by envy.
Magic sickness (death) as punishment for inhospitality.
Magic paralysis as punishment.
Magic paralysis as punishment for opposition to holy person.
Heretic suddenly becomes tongue-tied.
Magic paralysis as punishment for theft.
Magic paralysis as punishment for quarrelsomeness.
Deformity as punishment.
Deformity as punishment for false judging.
Deformity as punishment for desecration of holy places (images, etc.).
Deformity (putridity) as punishment for murder.
Man's eye bursts forth when he urges saint to marry.
Head falls off when man lies to saint.
Magic punishment: tongue protrudes from mouth of sinner and blindness follows.
Punishment: face distorted.
Miraculous burning as punishment.
Miraculous burning as punishment for opposition to holy person.
Magic burning to death as punishment for perjury.
Person miraculously lifted into air and dashed to death as punishment for blasphemy.
Person miraculously lifted into air and dashed to death as punishment for scoffing at church teachings.
Magic forgetfulness as punishment.
Premature aging as punishment.
Prodigy as punishment.
Death from elements as punishment for unjust judgment (by poets).
Death by thunderbolt as punishment.
Destruction of property by thunderbolt as punishment.
Thunderbolt demolishes fortress as punishment for disobedience (to saint).
Thunder slays people for disregard of him.
Lightning strikes monk who despises humility.
Ravisher killed by thunderbolt.
Impostor killed by lightning.
Death by thunderbolt as punishment for opposition to holy person.
Death by thunderbolt as punishment for treachery.
Death by thunderbolt as punishment for injustice.
Woman who accused saint of raping her is struck by lightning.
Infidel defies God to strike him with lightning.
Cattle thief calls on God to strike him with lightning if he has ever stolen a cow or calf.
Sinking of earth as punishment.
Quaking of earth as punishment.
Earth quakes when saint is opposed.
Land sinks and lake appears as punishment.
Grave sinks so that grave-robbers cannot get out.
Earth swallowings as punishment.
Girl sinks into earth for dancing in church.
Earth swallows man who opposes saint (holy man).
Earth swallows man as punishment for sacrilege (blasphemy, heresy, etc.).
Man who angers saint sinks into earth to his knees.
Earth swallows object as punishment.
Earth swallows mill in which saint's grain was refused grinding.
Earth swallows heretical city.
Island sinks for man's offense to saint.
Saint causes parricide to sink into earth to his knees.
Earth swallows man intending treachery.
Failure of crops during reign of wicked king.
Failure of crops as punishment for uncharitableness.
Failure of crops as punishment for murder.
Failure of crops and milk as punishment for adultery.
Failure of crops for mistreating the dead.
Famine as punishment.
Sterility of land as punishment for parricide.
Famine as punishment for oppression by victors.
Drought as punishment.
Food magically disappears.
Punishment for greed: streams of sugar, molasses, and milk from anchorite's tomb dry up and petrify because of townspeople's greed.
Punishment: water famine.
Murrain upon cattle as punishment.
Ear of stolen animal protrudes from thief's mouth.
Stolen animal cries out from stomach of thief.
Monstrous births as punishment for girl's pride.
Man who cuts off tongue of swallow has dumb children.
Rich lord who robs poor widow of her cow chokes on first mouthful.
Mary-image descends and chastises clerk who scoffs at its rude carving.
Dead cock rises, crows, and spatters scoffers so that they become leprous.
Punishment: woman who has prevented birth of children casts no shadow.
Plague as punishment.
Recurrent plague during reign of wicked king.
Punishment: meeting frightful apparition.
Punishment: shipwreck.
Fire from heaven as punishment.
Punishment by arrows of fire from heaven.
Sword (of fire) from heaven drawn upon sinners.
Gods pour torrents of hot ashes on kingdom as punishment.
Death by fire from heaven as punishment.
Death by fire from heaven as punishment for opposition to holy person.
Death by fire from heaven as punishment for scoffing at church teachings.
Destruction of property by fire from heaven as punishment.
City of king who opposed saint miraculously burned.
Church which refused to bury saint miraculously burned.
Fire from heaven consumes adulterous wife who has slandered an abbot.
Storm as punishment.
Storm as punishment for affront to disguised supernatural spirit.
Fortress built on Sunday destroyed by tempest.
Punishment: flood of mud after which crops of corn come up with black (smutted) ears.
Mass of sand advances like a tidal wave upon city.
Rain of stones as punishment.
Hail as punishment.
Punishment: cloud cuts off view of man promised all he can see for expelling saint.
Food and drink refused saint miraculously become putrid.
Food concealed from saint miraculously changed to stones.
Fishermen cut fish into pieces and claim that they have none.
Women carrying cheeses concealed pretend that they are carrying webs or balls of thread.
Punishment: grave fills with sand when digger attempts to bury sinner over holy man.
Punishment: disappearance of ill-gotten gains.
Gold and silver demanded of saint disappear.
Cowl demanded as ransom from saint bursts into flame.
Drink refused saint disappears.
Payment for ransom disappears when prisoner is not released.
Miraculous drowning as punishment.
Lake bursts forth to drown thief.
Drowning caused by magic wind as punishment of braggart.
Miraculous drowning as punishment for opposition to saint (holy man).
Miraculous drowning as punishment for desire to murder.
Miraculous drowning as punishment for theft.
Miraculous drowning as punishment for man's flight with stepmother.
Miraculous drowning as punishment for haughtiness.
Flood as punishment for murder (fratricide).
Eclipse as punishment.
Miraculous darkness as punishment.
Man vomits heart as punishment and lives without it till his death.
Punishment: city and inhabitants hurled down precipice.
Punishment: being suspended between heaven and earth.
Punishment: lava flow.
Earthquake as punishment.
Earthquake at dragon's death.
Earthquake at witch's death.
Divine favor withdrawn as punishment.
Virgin Mary withdraws the sacrament from a scoffer.
Punishment: angel ceases to appear to self-righteous hermit.
Sterility as punishment.
God refuses king a son on account of his many wars.
Sterility of women as punishment.
Children of incestuous father die without issue.
Sterility as punishment for breaking saint's covenant.
Sterility as punishment for parricide.
Sterility as punishment for uncharitableness to holy person.
Painful birth of children as punishment.
Punishment: reduced number of children.
Death of children as punishment.
Child taken from parents because they have ceased to think of God.
Punishment: small catch of fish for child-murderers.
Failure in all efforts as punishment.
Rains withheld until king remembers to have monks' huts roofed as promised.
Mysterious visitation as punishment.
Punishment: devil carries off thief.
Devil in roof of church into which he thrusts voices of loud singers.
Mysterious stranger blows ashes into face of scoffer and chokes him to death.
Mysterious wolf enters church and kills blaspheming priest.
Mysterious animal punishes penitent.
Cheaters visited by god in animal form.
Creditor in former existence comes to confiscate riches of unkind man in next existence.
Madness as punishment.
Madness as punishment for scoffer.
Madness as punishment for adulterer.
Madness as punishment for thieves.
Punishment for incest: father and son maddened; cut off their sexual organs.
Curse as punishment.
Curse threatened to enforce demand.
Voice from heaven pronounces curse of destruction on city.
Curse for participation in Crucifixion.
Mark of Cain.
Curse for leaving home.
Man has color of the dead as result of saint's curse for disobedience.
Child born with one eye blinded as result of saint's curse.
Saint decrees offenders will not be able to fortify their dwellings.
Curse for plundering church: king loses battles.
Curse for inhospitality.
Curse for enforced hospitality.
Curse for mockery.
Curse for banishing wife at wish of paramour.
Curse for murder.
Saint curses murderer with shortness of life here and hell beyond.
Curse for uncharitableness.
Curse for stealing.
Thievish abbot to be eaten by wolves: curse by saint.
Miraculous punishment through animals.
Poisonous toad sits on food of undutiful children.
Serpent chokes woman's undutiful son.
Eagle (ape) carries off ill-gotten gain.
Mouse causes hair of thief to fall out.
Saint's pet crane pecks out eye of spying person.
Snake strikes person for opposing saint.
Tiger seizes bride and bridegroom at threshold of house because groom has failed to worship deity before ceremony.
People given charm to dispel flies grumble: flies return a thousandfold.
Mysterious death as punishment.
Scoffing priest mysteriously stricken dead.
Perjurer stricken dead.
Usurer flees city to escape plague.
Blasphemer stricken dead.
Man in anger throws stone at the image of the Virgin.
Mysterious death as punishment for theft.
Slave-driver mysteriously stricken dead.
Mysterious death as punishment for wrongful satire.
Mysterious death as punishment for murder.
Mysterious death of son as punishment for murder.
Mysterious death as punishment for feigning sleep.
Animals which eat of saint's body stricken dead.
Mysterious death as punishment for worshiping idols on All-Saints-Day.
Mysterious death as punishment for opposition to holy person.
Mysterious death of son as punishment for opposition to holy person.
Mysterious death as punishment for disbelief in druidism.
Mysterious death as punishment for desecration of holy places (images, etc.).
Animals stricken dead for desecration of holy places.
Mysterious death as punishment for lying (perjury).
Mysterious death of son as punishment for lying (perjury).
Mysterious death as punishment for false judging.
Death by ulcer for destroying churches.
Saints bring about miraculous death because of desecration of sanctuaries.
Other miraculous punishments.
Devils instead of angels visit woman who has forgotten God in her prosperity.
Punishment: man stricken blind.
Body of murdered man cannot be moved nor can water be drawn from a well to wash it.
Peasants punished for working on feast day.
Girl punished for jeering at saint.
Birth of child prevented until girl confesses slander.
Girl's hand withers as punishment for broken oath to God.
Poets lose ability to compose verse as punishment for immoderate request.
Punishment: body will not decay after death because man broke saint's covenant.
Half of house in which false judgment is given slips down hill.
Saints miraculously cause child to fall over cliff as punishment for mother's washing clothes in holy well.
Magic boat keeps thief at sea until he promises to throw ill-gotten gains into sea.
Man miraculously made to excrete his entrails for heresy.
Punishments in land of dead (detailed).
Punishments in other world: people reincarnated as buffaloes and killed.
Respite from hell.
Souls in hell not punished on Sabbath.
Three hours of respite on Sunday for tormented in hell.
Certain number of souls released from hell every Saturday through virtue of saint.
Soul (of Judas) tormented on rock in sea on certain days as respite from pains of hell.
Sinners endure hell tortures for one year.
Punishments being prepared in hell.
Bed heating in hell for certain person.
Kettle heating in hell for certain person.
Seat (room) heating in hell for certain person.
Palace in other world of the dead where are rooms full of tongues, hands, etc. of men committing sins in this world.
Pain of souls tormented in hell alternately ebbs and flows.
Girdles of sinners in hell alternately scorch with heat and cold.
Souls in hell alternately drowned and burned.
Souls tormented in hell alternately borne up to firmament and cast down to depths.
Punishments in hell fitted to crimes.
Punishment in hell fitted to the grade of wickedness.
Letter sent to the relatives from man punished in hell.
Man admitted to neither heaven nor hell.
Person to be received by neither earth nor heaven.
Punishments by heat in hell.
Punishments by cold in hell.
Sharp icy hoods (cowls) worn by sinners in hell.
Other punishments in hell.
Sinners in hell forced to sit in dark puddles up to their middles.
Sinners in hell swallowed by dragons.
Sinners in hell fall into mouth of devil.
Sinners in hell painfully suspended.
Smokers in otherworld are locked in smoky rooms.
Magic foul disease as punishment for persecution of Christians remitted.
Magic blindness as punishment remitted.
Magic blindness as punishment for opposition to holy person remitted.
Magic blindness as punishment for uncharitableness remitted.
Magic sickness as punishment remitted.
Magic sickness as punishment for theft remitted.
Magic sickness as punishment for uncharitableness remitted.
Magic sickness as punishment for opposition to holy person remitted.
Magic sickness as punishment for immoderate request remitted.
Saint deprives enemy king of speech.
Magic paralysis as punishment remitted.
Magic paralysis as punishment for opposition to holy person remitted.
Magic paralysis as punishment for scorning of bishop remitted.
Mysterious death as punishment remitted.
Mysterious death as punishment for opposition to holy person remitted.
Mysterious death of animals as punishment for uncharitableness remitted.
Magic putrefaction of food as punishment for opposition to holy person remitted.
Curse as punishment remitted.
Curse of loss of victory for opposition to holy person remitted.
Sentence to hang remitted.
Spirit in hell remitted from humiliating punishment of bathing people.
Villain nemesis.
Loss of life as result of one's own treachery.
Unusual murder avenged in like manner.
Villain in hiding killed by blow aimed at his victim.
Those planning to drown others drowned.
Drowning as punishment for drowning.
Fitting death as punishment.
Sisters throw unique jewel into lake; killed and thrown after it.
Man who brings fire to his house at devil's instigation burns to death.
Murderer killed by his own spear.
Man killed by piece of stone flying from rock his victim dies upon.
Man dies from drop of blood of pet hound he has killed.
Man boasts he fears saint no more than hornless sheep; killed by hornless sheep.
Woman killed by horse got through immoderate request.
Boy who threw stones at clerics killed by thrown stone.
Person drinks poison he prepared for another.
Man falls dead when he sees his sons whom he has reared in sin all killed.
Fitting bodily injury as punishment.
Man who laughs at blind made blind.
Man stricken dumb for surly speech.
Man seeking to flee saint paralyzed.
Lying woman's tongue swells.
Transformation as fitting punishment.
Transformer transformed.
Transformation of a man to animal as fitting punishment.
Reincarnation in form fitted to crime.
Fitting destruction (disappearance) of property as punishment.
Man refuses to give to charity: his property disappears.
Destruction (disappearance) of property got through immoderate request.
During rainy spring, farmer wishes that Lord would sleep till harvest time.
Food disappears because of wastefulness.
Son on gallows bites his mother's (father's) nose off: punishment for neglect in youth.
Jealous husband kills bird which wife falsely says she has been listening to.
Ungrateful son punished by having a son equally ungrateful.
Punishment fitted to crime--miscellaneous.
Horses fail when owner refuses load to saint.
Man cannot drive cow by himself which he refused to share.
Man goes forth naked: cursed with nakedness throughout life.
Punishment for stinginess: amends made by being generous and liberal.
Punishment: lie becomes truth.
Punishment: death pretended becomes real.
King tests saint by having man feign death; saint perceives trick and causes man to be dead.
Punishment: man says salt he carries is stones; it immediately becomes so.
Punishment: man says sugar he carries is earth; it becomes so.
Man dies from pretended illness.
Dead mother appears and makes disobedient child eat fatal serpent.
Punishment: taking snakes as foster children.
Loss or destruction of property as punishment.
Fortress ravaged when saint is refused admittance.
Cattle killed, crops burned as punishment for abduction.
Uncharitable king loses wealth.
Loss of money as punishment.
Tribute as punishment for trickery.
Punishment in effigy.
Quartering in effigy for uxoricide.
Animals avenge injury.
Snake carries into fire man who has banned snakes.
Birds take back their feathers from ungrateful wolf to whom they have lent them.
Bees sting honey-thieves.
Punishment: fighting all who pass through forest.
Other punishments.
Punishment: marrying shrewish wife.
Wild man captured and tamed.
God holds the devil captive for three years.
King imprisons another king's embassy.
Surprise capture.
Enemy surprised while bathing: taken.
Capture on field of battle.
Enemy host imprisoned by earthen walls thrown up by hero's chariot wheels.
Hero captured by being pressed between shields from all sides.
Messenger of Death imprisoned.
Men held captive in the Land of Women.
Gods captured.
Captivity--miscellaneous.
Sun captured.
Sun captured during visit to earth.
Sun and Moon captured by creditor, thus causing eclipse.
Sun and Moon imprison each other.
Grain and pulse in human form imprisoned by wicked king.
Ogress captured and reformed.
Fire-maiden imprisoned in iron house.
Cow imprisoned until it promises not to eat men.
King imprisons all living creatures.
Princess (maiden) abducted.
Maiden abducted by soldiers.
Lover abducts maiden from cruel father and brother.
Pretended abduction.
Children abducted.
Hero abducted by witch who loves him.
Abduction of bridegroom and killing of his bride planned as giantess's revenge.
Abduction by monster (ogre).
Princess (maiden) abducted by monster (ogre).
Abduction of girl by half bestial man (hair on body, nails of dog).
Abduction by devil.
Devil carries off wicked people.
Devil carries off emperor because of his many murders.
Abduction by demon.
Abduction by Echo.
Abduction by giant.
Abduction by pirates.
Maiden abducted by pirates (robbers).
Man abducted by pirates.
Child abducted by robbers and brought up in their ways.
Lovers abducted by pirates.
Girl enticed into boat and abducted.
Abduction by animal.
Dragon flies to its nest with human being.
Children carried off by animals.
Abduction by wild beast.
Baboons abduct boy.
Lion carries off child.
Rhinoceros carries off man.
Abduction by tiger.
Tiger abducts man.
Abduction of woman by tiger.
Tigers abduct princess to be wife of their human ward.
Wolf abducts person.
Girl abducted by bear and made his wife.
Abduction by monkey.
Girl carried off by monkeys.
Abduction by rabbit.
Abduction by leopard.
Abduction by elephant.
Abduction by fox.
Abduction by domestic beast.
Girl carried off by ram.
Bull carries off devil after he has tried to deceive God.
Abduction by cat.
Abduction by goddess's cat.
Person carried off by bird.
Abduction by ravens.
Eagle carries off youth.
Abduction by reptile.
Abduction by snake.
Deity (demigod) abducts person.
Abduction by transformed person.
Maiden abducted by transformed hero.
Child carried off by werwolf.
Woman abducted by (transformed) fairy.
Abduction by tiger-man.
Abduction by elephant-man.
Abduction by whirlwind.
Whirlwind carries princess away.
Abduction by rejected suitor.
Abduction by giving soporific.
Abduction by giving soporific and rolling up in a cloak.
Abduction by means of sleep-giving music.
Abduction with aid of magic mask which renders invisible.
Abductor in disguise.
Prince disguised as holy man abducts princess.
Princely suitor in minstrel disguise carries princess away.
Abduction through underground passage.
Princess abducted through underground passage.
Light extinguished and woman stolen.
Abduction by stealing clothes of bathers.
Fairy physician abducted to heal wounded mortals.
Abducted princess gives birth to child.
Abduction--miscellaneous.
Abduction by magician.
Abduction by old woman.
Captivity in tower (castle, prison).
Captivity in castle.
Captivity in subterranean palace.
Captivity in tower.
Slandered wife is locked in tower for forty days.
Captivity in bower.
Captivity in dungeon.
Prison filled with snakes.
Prison with stream of water in it.
Prison floor with spikes in it.
Captivity in well.
Groom as prisoner in his and giantess's bridal chamber.
Abducted princess fettered in hall with 100 doors.
Queen kept in palace of forty doors, each of them watched by a dog.
Captivity in a pillar.
Captivity in cages.
Captivity in sunken valley.
Captivity on island.
Captivity in mound (cave, hollow hill).
Man confined under roots of tree.
Imprisonment in lion's den.
Captivity in cave.
Bear keeps human wife captive in cave with stone at entrance.
Captivity under water.
Captivity in lower world.
Other places of captivity.
Captivity in tree.
Captivity in an oven.
Ogre seizes girl and puts her in a drum.
Mistreatment of prisoners.
Prisoners starved.
Prisoners confined in chains.
Prisoners mutilated.
Prisoner massacred.
Captivity as refuge for the captive.
Woman hidden in underground chamber or mud cabin.
Woman hidden in sacred place which her lover is not supposed to dare to enter.
Girl locked up in order to postpone wedding.
Faithful servant locks his master and his friend up in a little house built from wood from their wrecked ships; they falsely think
themselves betrayed.
Hero locked up while his father is murdered.
Person sold into slavery.
Captive prince joins captor out of gratitude for his freedom.
Defiant prisoners refuse to accept grace even from their father unless it is granted them all.
Defeated warriors go into the conqueror's service.
Defeated enemy turns conqueror's best friend.
Defeated enemy's son turns conqueror's man.
Defeated enemy holds rank and country when he promises to pay tax to conqueror.
Imprisoned king's son released when he promises to be a faithful subject and pay tax.
Surrendering.
Defeated surrender their city.
Warriors surrender after chief's death.
Warriors flee after chief's death.
Woman suckles imprisoned relative through prison wall.
Woman suckles husband isolated on rock.
Captive sends secret message outside (in orange or on handkerchief).
Baker, disguised as old woman, substitutes for princess in cell when he brings bread to her.
Prisoner's sustenance from outside prison.
Captive protected by angel from abductor.
Goddess delivers and restores goods of man thrown into jail.
Rescue of captive maiden.
All man's property offered to rescuer of stolen daughter.
Princess (maiden) rescued from captor.
Rescue of princess from ogre.
Princess rescued from robbers.
Rescue of princess (maiden) from dragon.
Rescue of princess (maiden) from giant (monster).
Rescue of woman from snake-husband.
Princess ransomed from slavery.
Queen rescued from slavery.
Rescue of princess (maiden) from magician.
Rescue of maidens from witches.
Princess rescued from undesired suitor.
Rescue of princess (queen, maiden) from supernatural being who has won her at game of chance.
Maiden rescued from rakshasa.
Princess rescued from captivity of elephant.
Rescue of girl from tigers.
Rescue of woman from bear's cave.
Princess rescued from place of captivity.
Princess(es) rescued from lower world.
Stolen woman rescued from lower world.
Rescue of princess from mountain.
Princess rescued from giant's cave where she is fettered to a chair by the hair.
Rescue of earl's daughter from giant's cave where she is chained to the wall (a pillar).
Princess rescued from temple where she is imprisoned.
Girl rescued from tree.
Means of rescuing princess.
Girl rescued by traveling through air.
Hero returns rescued princess to her betrothed.
Nobleman rescues lady from treacherous servant.
Girl rescued and then abandoned.
Joint rescuers quarrel over rescued princess.
Rescued person stolen from rescuer.
Rescued woman stolen from rescuer by demon.
Rescued woman stolen from rescuer by other men.
Magic rescue of prisoner from mound.
Three blasts on horn before sunrise to rescue prisoner from mound.
Riding three times around hill to free captive confined within.
Rescue of prisoners from fairy stronghold.
King transformed to parrot frees captured parrots.
Husband transformed into mouse so he can enter cave-prison of his wife.
Rescue from robbers' den.
Rescue from being burned.
Means of rescue from prison.
Princess pulled through prison window by hand and freed.
Rescuer impersonates captive and deceives blind guardian while captive escapes.
House burned (torn) down to deliver man imprisoned in it.
Ants carry silk threads to prisoner, who makes rope and escapes.
Ariadne-thread.
Rescue from prison by saint, who enters and breaks fetters.
Saint appears to captor in vision and demands prisoner's release.
Locks marvelously open for person.
Lovers ransomed from prison.
Fairy mound destroyed to rescue person confined in it.
Stream carries communication between prisoner and rescuer.
With her teeth woman files away chain tying up husband.
Miraculous rescue.
Prisoner whirled away in blaze of fire.
Prisoner carried off in cloud.
Boon granted after prayer and widow's son is released from prison.
Exposed or abandoned child rescued.
Nurse begs alms from door to door so as to keep child and nurture him.
Miraculous rescue of all exposed children.
Hunter rescues abandoned child.
Miller rescues abandoned child.
Miller rescues drowning princess.
Herdsman rescues abandoned child.
Shepherd rescues abandoned child.
Goatherd rescues abandoned child.
Cowherd rescues abandoned child.
Person pushed into well by wife rescued by cowherd.
Swineherd rescues abandoned child.
Fisher rescues abandoned child.
Servant rescues abandoned child.
Peasant rescues abandoned child.
Merchant rescues abandoned child.
Other workmen rescue abandoned child.
Horse-keeper rescues abandoned child.
Gardener rescues abandoned child.
Washerman rescues abandoned child.
Smith rescues abandoned child.
Forester rescues abandoned child.
Potter rescues abandoned child(ren).
Gold-washer rescues abandoned child.
Barber rescues and befriends abandoned boy.
Porter rescues abandoned child.
Hermit rescues abandoned child.
Woman disguised as hermit rescues abandoned child.
Exalted person rescues abandoned child.
Princess rescues abandoned child.
King rescues abandoned child.
Prince rescues abandoned child.
Deity rescues abandoned child.
Minister's son recovers prince's lost wife for him.
Fairy rescues abandoned child.
Palmer rescues abandoned child.
Sailors rescue abandoned child.
Children abandoned in a boat survive storm and are rescued.
Angel rescues abandoned child.
Coyote rescues abandoned child(ren).
Pious woman rescues abandoned child.
Bard (poet) rescues abandoned child.
Indians rescue abandoned children.
Vanished wife rescued.
Hero finds his vanished wife and disenchants her.
Lost wife restored by conjurer.
Abandoned children (wife, etc.) find way back by clue (bread-crumb, grain, pebble, etc.).
Stolen wife makes trail of speaking spittle for husband.
Trail of grain (seeds).
Trail of rice husks.
Trail of jewels.
Trail of shreds of dress.
Trail of thread.
Trail of ashes.
Trail of flowers.
Crumb (grain) trail eaten by birds.
Feathers left to mark trail blown away by wind.
Mermaid rescues heroine who has been thrown overboard.
Rescue from shipwreck.
Mermaid rescues hero (boy) from shipwreck.
Gam rescues hero as boy from shipwreck.
Rescue from well.
Exposed children swallowed by earth; vomited up when grown.
Abandoned man befriended by a Centaur.
Husband rescues wife.
Husband rescues stolen wife.
Husband frees wife who has sold herself into slavery in order to ransom him.
Husband rescues wife from burning at stake.
Husband rescues wife from cannibal.
Wife rescues husband.
Disguised wife helps husband escape from prison.
Woman disguised as man sells herself into slavery in order to ransom (free) her husband (lover).
Wives change clothes with their imprisoned husbands when allowed to visit them.
Wife gets back her husband from land of serpents by charming him with her beautiful dance.
Transformed wife takes husband out of captivity.
Parents rescues child.
Parents rescue son.
Parents rescue son from lower world on rope.
Father rescues children.
Father hides children from murderous mother.
Father rescues son(s).
Father rescues son captured by enemy.
Father rescues son stolen by animals.
Old robber frees his three sons: relates frightful adventures.
Father rescues son from prison.
Fathers thrust sons above water even as they themselves drown.
Father hides son from Satan.
Mother rescues son.
Mother rescues fettered son.
Mother hides twin (triplet) sons to keep them from death.
Father rescues daughter.
Children rescue parents.
Children rescue mother from lion's den.
Son rescues mother.
Son rescues mother from burning at stake.
Son rescues father.
Son frees father by bringing riddle the king cannot solve.
Son recovers father's bones.
Sons rescue father.
Daughter rescues father.
Brothers rescue brothers.
Youngest brother rescues his elder brothers.
Elder brother rescues younger.
Brother rescues sister(s).
Sisters rescue sisters.
Youngest sister rescues elder.
Sister rescues brother(s).
Lover rescues his lady.
Hero rescued by his lady.
Lover rescues his lady from abductor.
Princess rescued by blind man restores his sight and marries him.
Lover rescues his lady from drowning.
Lover rescues his lady from the gallows.
Rescue by captor's daughter (wife, mother).
Rescue by grateful dead man.
Rescue by giant.
Giant rescues maiden.
Giant rescues woman from burning at stake.
Rescue by saint (holy man).
Rescue of poor girl by St. Nicholas.
Innocently hanged person saved by saint.
Abducted wife brought back by fakir.
Brothers having extraordinary skill rescue princess.
Master rescues disciple.
Angels as rescuers.
Other rescuers.
Hero in disguise of foolish knight, then of black knight, rescues lady.
Boys rescued from beasts by hermit.
Boy saved by werwolf.
Hero rescued by servant.
Rescue of bride from mysterious perils by hidden faithful servant.
Rescue of king's children by faithful servant.
Hero rescued by friend.
Hero's wife rescued by his faithful friend.
Youth saved from death sentence by father's friend.
Royal minister rescues abandoned queen(s).
Predestined rescuer.
Boy rescued by childless woman.
Unpromising hero as rescuer.
Fool rescues girl and wins her for his wife.
Unknown helper(s) emerge(s) in the last moment and turn(s) out later to be well known.
Hero rescued by sailors.
Child rescued by nurse.
Wounded hero restored in peasant's house.
Rescue by stranger.
Death as rescuer.
Rescue at the stake.
Escape from sacrificial altar on ram with golden fleece.
Executioner miraculously blinded: condemned man saved.
Demon enclosed in bottle released.
Demon imprisoned in tree released.
True rescuer hidden by girl when he arrives to claim her.
Mortal fights with "Death".
Mortal deceives Angel of Death.
Horn of Roncevalles.
Dord fнan.
Rescued person horrifies rescuers: e.g., they swoon on seeing him.
King (prince) returns home (from exile) and rescues his native country.
Escape from prison.
Giant breaks from tower prison.
Captive bores way out of prison.
Escape through underground passage.
Escape from slavery (pirates).
Captive hews through iron prison with sword.
Captive knocks prison roof off.
Escape from pit of snakes by means of rope.
Rescue from prison by beheading giant keeper.
Escape from prison because of bribed guards.
Escape from grave.
Man buried alive with king escapes from the tomb.
Man buried alive escapes from tomb when thief tries to rob it.
Captive buried alive to his neck fastens his teeth on jackal that comes to eat him and companions.
Man buried alive with beloved escapes, as thieves break open the tomb.
Escape from home.
Prince escapes from home in order to see world.
Animal eludes bird watchman and escapes from his hole.
Escape from execution.
Escape from execution pyre by means of wings.
Escape from execution pyre through underground passage.
Escape from death by boiling oil.
Escape from execution on flying wooden horse.
Escape from ship while captors quarrel.
Escape from ship by jumping into the sea.
Inscription accidentally seen tells hero how to escape captivity.
Escape from fairyland.
Escapes--miscellaneous.
Man carried off on bed escapes by grasping tree limbs as he passes under tree.
Man and wife escape from land of dead upon a vine.
Heroine's three-fold flight from ball.
Unknown knight.
Girl flees to escape incestuous brother.
Elopement.
Elopement on winged horse.
Lovers elope to prevent girl' s marriage to undesired
fiancй.
Wife flees from husband.
Wife flees from animal husband.
Flight from hated husband.
Supernatural wife finds garment stolen from her by husband and leaves him.
Children leave home because their parents refuse them food.
Obstacle flight--Atalanta type.
Ogre tries to retain fugitive by tempting him with gold ring; but he takes ring by cutting off the hand.
Fugitive cuts tail of camel caught by pursuer and it turns into grass.
Helpful animal's tail cut off so pursuers who hang onto tail are shaken off into river.
Fugitive kills pursuer and takes his extraordinary horse to continue flight.
Fugitives cut support of bridge so that pursuer falls.
Pursuers aided by magic weather phenomenon.
Fugitive aided by magic mist.
Sun sets at high noon to hide fugitive.
Earthquake saves fugitive.
Fugitive has magic wind against him, pursuer with him (caused by goddess).
Flight on skis; two on one pair.
Flight carrying friend (girl) on back.
Fugitives aided by helpful animal.
Pursuer misdirected by animal to help fugitive.
Ships burned to prevent flight.
Whale-boat.
Crocodile-boat.
Snake king takes fleeing captives across river.
Crane-bridge.
Stone bridge appears for fugitives.
Flight on a tree, which ogre tries to cut down.
Flight by vaulting on stick.
Escape from nest of giant bird by seizing two young birds and jumping.
Formula for girl fleeing: behind me night, etc.
Fugitives sustain selves on apples.
Pursuit by rolling object.
Pursuit by rolling head.
Magic eel pursues man over land.
Pursuer (witch, giant) pulls out tail of fugitive's horse.
Fugitives trailed by mustard seeds (ashes) dropped from bag.
Dew in footprints reveals man's way.
Pursuit by fire.
Pursuer follows successive night campfires (each brighter than last).
Tree refuge.
Trees magically hide a fugitive.
Thorn-brake as refuge.
King escapes pursuers through hollow tree in his hall.
Stolen child found in hollow tree.
Stretching tree refuge for fugitive.
Forest as refuge.
Forest as refuge of eloping lovers.
Princess hides in straw.
Negro takes refuge under princess's throne.
Cave as refuge.
Cave as eloping lovers' refuge.
Christians crushed in cave where they take refuge from heathen.
Refuge on rock in sea.
Refuge on island.
Well (spring) as refuge.
Girl hidden in skin of her dead mother.
Boy hidden under skin in order not to be seen and prophesied about.
Escape to the stars.
Sister escapes to the stars to avoid marrying brother.
Escape to moon.
Eagle's nest as refuge.
Refuge in upper world.
Murderer escapes to sky on sky rope.
Murderer escapes to sky in magic chariot.
Refuge in air.
Escape from battle by flying in air.
Church (altar) as refuge.
Devil chases ghost of wicked man until he puts his head into chapel window.
Idol cracks open to grant refuge to fugitive in answer to prayer; then closes again.
Saint offers murderer refuge.
Escape to fairyland.
Earth opens to rescue fugitive.
Hero takes refuge at king's court.
Roof as refuge for pursued animals.
Refuge under kettle.
Escape by intervention of Providence.
Lightning strikes branch on which man is being hanged.
Cities of refuge.
Fugitive discovered by reflection in water.
Milk drops from woman's breast on tiger's leg and reveals her hiding place in tree.
Lovers fleeing from slavery are recaptured.
Eloping girl recaptured by parents.
Cruel father.
Father mutilates children.
Jealous father sends son to upper world on stretching tree.
Father kills child.
Man who doubts his children's paternity kills them.
Father kills deformed children.
Father kills son.
Father kills son (for stealing).
Father murders his two sons for whining.
Cruel father, learning that he is to be killed by his son, puts to death all children born to him.
Cruel king slays brother and brother's son.
Father throws boy into river (sea).
Father orders son assassinated.
Father eats own children.
Father plans child's death.
Jealous father vows to kill daughter's suitors.
Father kisses son while planning to kill him.
Cruel fathers threaten to kill their children if they are of undesirable sex.
Cruel father seeks to kill infant son.
Father banishes son at request of fairy wife.
Father flogs child.
Cruel mother.
Treacherous mother marries ogre and plots against son.
Treacherous mother and paramour plan son's death.
Cruel mother kills child.
Mother feeds newly-born illegitimate child to dog.
Mother throws children into fire.
Mother forces child to break eating tabu: child dies.
Mother orders son's death.
Cruel mother blinds son.
Cruel mother expels (drives away) child.
Girl impregnated by god driven from home by mother.
Cruel mother refuses children food.
Mother tells healthy sons to wipe soiled hands on lame son.
Children sell mother.
Child hides food from starving parents.
Cruel son.
Son buries aged mother alive.
Son blinds father.
Son gives mother as hostage.
King banishes mother to stables.
Cruel son tries to sterilize father.
Parricide.
Parricide to obtain kingship.
Adopted son plots death of parents.
Prince plans to kill wicked father for cruelty.
Father learns that his son is planning to kill him.
Cruel grandson.
Boy kills his grandfather.
Cruel stepmother.
Adulteress and paramour plot against her stepson.
Children enchanted by stepmother.
Cruel bird stepmother feeds young ones with thorns.
Cruel stepmother feeds children with fish spines (thorns) to kill them.
Girl persuades her father to marry a widow who has treated her kindly.
Cruel stepfather.
Cruel stepbrother.
Cruel stepsister(s).
Cruel foster father.
Cruel foster son.
Cruel grandmother.
Cruel grandfather.
Cruel mother-in-law.
Cruel mother-in-law plans death of daughter-in-law.
Cruel father-in-law.
Cruel daughter-in-law.
Burned and underbaked bread.
Cruel sister-in-law.
Cruel son-in-law.
Lover asks girl to kill her father.
Cruel husband.
Bluebeard.
Man has bride drowned so that he may marry another.
Barren wife exposed by husband.
Husband leaves wife to die of thirst.
Spouse murder pact.
Cruel uncle.
Cruel uncle poisons nephew (king).
Cruel aunt.
Fratricide.
Murder of stepbrother (foster brother).
Fratricide in order to gain control of kingship.
Brother kills and eats brother.
Elder brother threatens to kill younger as soon as he is born.
Fratricide motivated by love-jealousy.
Person banishes brother (sister).
Man blinds brother.
Cruel nephew.
Nephew (niece) kills uncle.
Old people killed in famine.
Child condemned to be killed in famine.
Man kills all guests, hoping some day to kill rival.
Princess builds tower of skulls of unsuccessful suitors.
Princess makes necklace of heads of unsuccessful suitors.
Prince resolves to drive relatives from his domain.
Murderer kills all who come to certain spot.
Murder by poisoning.
Murder with poisoned bread.
Murder with poisoned lace.
Murder with poisoned comb.
Murder with poisoned apple.
Murder with poisoned book.
Murder with poisoned robe.
Murder with poisoned slippers.
Murder by feeding poisonous snake.
Murder by placing a poisoned fingernail on step.
Burning to death.
City burned with all inhabitants.
House (hostel) burned with all inside.
Boiling to death.
Murder with hot iron.
Murder by hot iron through heart.
Murder by driving red-hot iron spits through soles of feet and into shins.
Murder by hot lead poured into ear.
Attempted murder by live coals in garments.
Murder by feeding on over-hot food.
Murder by roasting alive in oven furnace).
Son takes mother to woods and tries to burn her up while she sleeps.
Murder by strangling.
Murder by hanging.
Slaves killed by hanging.
Prisoners taken in war (enemy's messengers) hanged.
Murder by suffocation.
Devil cuts off hand of woman and suffocates her.
Suffocating in bathroom.
Murder by luring to feast and suffocating.
Murder by flaying.
Skin of murdered person found in enemy's house.
Murder by stabbing.
Murder by stabbing in ear.
Murder by sticking needle through head.
Murder by driving nail through head.
Murder by piercing with pins and needles.
Murder by crushing.
Murder by grinding in mill.
Pregnant woman crushed beneath chariot.
Murder by breaking back.
Murder by crushing head.
Murder by crushing beneath falling tree.
Murder by trampling of horses (elephants).
Death by dragging behind horse.
Murder by cutting.
Murder by cutting adversary in two.
Murder by cutting throat.
Murder by slamming down chest-lid.
Flogging to death.
Burial alive.
Hostages buried alive.
Burial alive of drugged person.
Burial of living husband or wife with dead spouse.
Burial of living man with dead blood brother.
Living children buried with dead mother.
Avenger plans to let king starve in mountain chamber.
Burial alive of maiden to keep her safe from rival.
Enemies buried alive up to their necks and exposed to jackals.
Immolation.
Self-immolation.
Murder by throwing from height.
Murder by drowning.
River carrier (whale, crocodile) throws passenger off and drowns him.
Murder by starvation.
Murder by beheading.
Murder by springing bent tree.
Miscellaneous cruel murders.
Murder by twisting out intestines.
Slain person dismembered.
Head of murdered man displayed before his own house.
Head of murdered man taken along as trophy.
Other indignities to corpse.
Heads of slain enemies impaled upon stakes.
Heads (tongues) of slain enemies as trophies.
Impaled head used as target.
Custom: sitting upon head of slain enemy.
Heads of defeated enemies hung on conqueror's saddle.
Hand of slain enemy nailed to castle.
Heads brandished to intimidate foe.
Dead man gutted and filled with stones.
Dead dog buried with enemy.
Corpse buried face down as indignity.
Parts of corpses used in sport.
Head used as ball.
Brains of enemies fashioned into balls (as trophies for play).
Chess board and men made from bones of slain enemies.
Corpses burned as fuel for cooking.
Corpse drawn asunder.
Ash (hazel) stakes thrust through bodies of slain warriors.
Ashes of murdered person passed through sieve and remains put to manure heap.
Captured women hanged and crucified.
Murder by mangling with axe.
Murder by cutting off uvula.
Murder by tearing out heart.
Murder by slicing person into small pieces.
Murder by biting the throat.
Abandonment of aged.
Exposure in boat.
Man springs ashore and pushes companion in boat out to sea.
Father saves himself in storm and forgets his two children.
Exposure astride a log of wood floated down river.
Person thrown into the water and abandoned.
Abandonment in forest.
Child abandoned in hollow tree.
Abandonment in tall tree.
Tortoise placed in tall tree and left.
Mutilated man on horseback chased into the forest.
Husband abandons wife in childbirth in jungle.
Abandonment in desert.
Abandonment alone on foreign coast.
Abandonment on an island.
Abandonment in pit.
Abandonment in well.
Abandonment in cave.
Abandonment on mountain.
Abandonment on cliff.
Abandonment on cliff near nest of a bird.
Abandonment in bonds that cannot be loosed.
Children abandoned in box in potter's kiln.
Abandonment in stable.
Self-mutilation.
Jealous women mutilate her who is most attractive to men.
Fairies mutilate mortals.
Mutilation of envoys.
Moon mutilates his earth mistress.
Mutilation: cutting off hands (arms).
Masons who build mausoleum of princess lose their right hands so they may never again construct so fine a building.
Mutilation: cutting off fingers.
Child's finger-ends cut off to give long life.
Mutilation: cutting off legs (feet).
Fighting on stumps of legs after they have been cut off at knee.
Hamstringing.
Mutilation: cutting off toes.
Mutilation: cutting off heelbone.
Mutilation: crushing feet and turning them backward.
Mutilation: cutting (tearing) out tongue.
Mutilation: knocking out teeth.
Mutilation: putting out eyes.
Eyes of beheaded person gouged out.
Crane pecks out tiger's eyes.
Blinding by thrusting needles into eyes.
Eyes torn out and filled with sand.
Necklace made of torn out human eyes.
Human eyes used as fishbait.
Artisan who has built palace blinded so he cannot build another like it.
Mutilation: skin cut from back.
Mutilation: beard torn off with the skin (and cheeks).
Mutilation: cheek and chin cut off, but held together by biting the beard.
Mutilation: shoulder-skin torn off in wrestling.
Mutilation: cheeks cut off.
Mutilation: chin and lips cut off.
Blood-eagle cut on man's back by flaying and salting.
Mutilation by crushing.
Mutilation: crushing victim's limbs.
Mutilation: tearing off ears.
Mutilation: nose cut off or crushed.
Angry paramour bites off his mistress's nose.
Mutilation: breaking (two, three) ribs.
Horses mutilated: tails cut off and manes torn off with the skin in order to humiliate their owner.
Mutilation: sex organs cut off.
Mutilation: emasculation.
Wounding by trapping with sharp knives (glass).
Victim bound to a bladed wheel.
Girl fastened by hair to rafter.
Man hanged by hair to tree.
Girl pulled about by her hair.
Frightful meal.
Person forced to eat red-hot meal.
Person forced to eat hearts (flesh) of relatives (draw blood).
Person forced to eat loathsome animal.
Cruelty to pregnant woman.
Co-wife forces pregnant woman to perform lowly tasks.
King demands intercourse with woman in childbed.
Torturing by beating.
Torturing by scratching.
Torture by tearing out the sides (of a person).
Hair combed with iron combs.
Driving insane by keeping awake.
Child sold into slavery.
Child sold to be killed.
Child sold (promised) to devil (ogre).
Child of woman and devil taken to his father.
Child sold to magician.
Child promised to wood-spirit.
Child promised to mermaid.
Child promised to animal.
Girl promises herself to animal suitor.
Mothers exchange children.
Child sold (promised) for money.
Bankrupt father sells his daughters in marriage to animals.
Youth sells himself to an ogre in settlement of a gambling debt.
Man promises (sells) child in order to save himself from danger or death.
Woman promises her unborn child to appease offended witch.
Woman promises unborn daughter to snake as wife for ferrying her across stream.
Woman promises unborn child to tiger if he will spare her.
Sultan's daughter demanded by giant ogre as price for letting his subjects alone.
Childless couple promise child to the devil if they may only have one.
Robert the Devil.
Maid pledged to devil dresses conspicuously.
Girl promises unborn child to devil if he will suffer the birth pangs.
Mother curses her unborn child.
An old maid promises the devil her first born.
Childless couple promise one of two children to devil if they may only have them.
Child promised to devil for acting as godfather.
Child promised to devil for help on road with broken wagon.
Child promised to devil for directions out of woods when father is lost.
Child promised to devil in exchange for a good catch of fish.
Daughter promised to monster as bride to secure flower (bird) she has asked for.
Daughter promised to tiger in marriage for help in carrying load.
Children given in return for being taught magic.
Children sold in exchange for food.
Angry man gives away his daughter to a beggar.
Girl promised unwittingly by her parents to ogre.
Child unwittingly promised: "first thing you meet." Unwitting bargain with devil evaded by driving dog over
bridge first.
Devil is to have last one who leaves "black school".
Princess promised unwittingly to madman: "what you ask for."
Child unwittingly promised: "what you have at home." Child unwittingly promised: "What you wife has under her
belt." Child unwittingly promised: Nix-Naught-Nothing.
Child unwittingly promised: what is born on your farm.
Daughter unwittingly promised to dog rescuer.
Virgin Mary rescues child promised to the devil.
Vain attempt to save promised child.
Vain attempt to save promised child by use of substitute.
Vain attempt to save promised child by evasions.
Deity saves person about to be sacrificed.
Deity promises deliverance of promised child to mother in dream.
Child sacrificed to deity returned to mother alive and whole after the ablution and ceremonial rites in honor of her.
Human sacrifice.
Child sacrifice as religious rite.
Sacrifice of sister on advice of yogi.
Prisoners sacrificed to goddess.
Sacrifice of child to save life of another.
Foundation sacrifice.
Human blood mixed with rice to make leaky tanks hold water.
Child as foundation sacrifice smiles and wins freedom.
Periodic sacrifices to a monster.
One man disappears each night.
Woman given to devastating monster as wife to appease it.
Tribute of youths regularly sent to foreign king.
Youths and maidens as yearly tribute to monsters (Fomorians).
Sacrificial victim chosen by lot.
Girl offers to sacrifice herself to dragon in place of her parents.
Sacrifice to appease spirits (gods).
Highest ranking man in land to be sacrificed for good crops.
Child sacrificed to gain favor of gods.
Gods furnish substitute for child sacrifice.
Daughters sacrificed to avert famine.
Man shows himself willing to sacrifice his child to prove his desire to follow God.
Person sacrificed to water spirit to secure water supply.
Human sacrifice to water serpent to secure tribal prosperity.
Serpent in stream demands pair of human eyes for drink of water.
Raja sacrifices his entire family so as to purify lake water.
Sacrifice to river-god who has stopped boat in mid-stream.
Sacrifice to offended gods, who hold ship back.
Sacrificial suicide.
Saints (monks) sacrifice themselves (to avert plague).
Monks sacrifice themselves (to save king and princes from pestilence).
Man leaps from vessel into jaws of sea-beast, so as to save remaining passengers.
Man sacrifices his wife to procure wealth in jars.
Sacrifice to rivers and seas.
Man thrown overboard to placate storm.
Man carried on top of mast ready to be sacrificed to storm spirit.
Woman drowns herself as sacrifice to water-gods to save husband's boat from capsizing.
Sacrifice to tank.
Sacrifice of strangers.
Hostages sacrificed.
Burial of live girl to banish plague.
Flood stopped by sacrifice of boy and girl.
Child sacrificed to provide blood for cure of friend.
Sacrifice of child demanded as cure for feigned sickness.
Prince's life can only be prolonged if servant sacrifices his only son to goddess.
Son sold for transfusion of blood to sick king.
Sacrifice of child to remove barrenness.
Sacrifice of brothers promised if girl is born.
Flight of brothers from home to avoid being sacrificed.
Child bought to serve as sacrifice to demon.
Sacrifice as an agricultural rite.
Sacrifice as protection against disease.
Children abandoned (exposed).
Children murdered.
All new-born male children slaughtered.
Son killed at instigation of lover.
Woman asks suitor to kill the child of his first wife.
Undesirable children exposed, desirable preserved.
Parents successively bury alive their sons who mention something about smith's, potter's, washerman's, and tom-tom beater's trade, but
keep fifth child who says something about being future king.
Illegitimate child exposed.
Child of incest exposed.
Violated woman's child exposed.
Posthumous child to be exposed.
Woman abandons baby boy (of which she was artificially impregnated) in forest.
Child of supernatural birth exposed.
Twins (triplets) exposed.
Destitute parents abandon children.
Children abandoned in famine.
Children abandoned (driven forth, exposed) by hostile relative.
Orphaned boy deprived of his inheritance by relatives.
Father casts daughter forth.
Father who wanted son exposes (murders) daughter.
Father casts daughter forth when she will not marry him.
Exposure in jungle for refusing to marry according to father's wishes.
Father condemns daughter to death because he believes her unchaste.
Princess humiliated by father after she has married loathly bridegroom.
Boy turned out of doors by father.
King, jealous of son, banishes him and his wife.
Jealous mother casts daughter forth.
Mother exposes child (for fear of jealous co-wife).
Jealous co-wife kills woman's children.
Jealous co-wife demands murder of woman's children.
Jealous concubine plots against real wife's daughter.
Evil stepmother casts boy forth.
Banishment (death) of stepchildren demanded as cure for feigned illness.
Evil stepmother orders stepdaughter to be killed.
Stepmother irritates two stepsons so that one kills the other.
Repulsed lover kills woman's child.
Jealous mother-in-law and sisters cast woman's children forth.
Evil stepmother works stepdaughter to death in absence of merchant husband.
Pregnant woman ordered by husband to kill child to be born.
Diseased child exposed.
Monstrous (deformed) child exposed.
Child born with caul exposed.
Disobedient children cast forth.
Disobedient child burned.
Child cast out because of his stupidity.
Father wants to kill son because of foolish boasting.
Baby ordered killed because it pulls beard of father (raja).
Half-wit abandoned because of his tricks.
Mother sells her child to heathen sailors.
Reasons for abandonment of children--miscellaneous.
Child exposed so as to avoid death decree.
Exposure of child in boat (floating chest).
Queen hides her child and accuses wolf of eating it.
Child's ankles pierced before exposing him.
Tokens of royalty (nobility) left with exposed child.
Child exposed with twelve years' supply of food and attendants.
Child exposed at palace gate.
Abandoned child wrapped in straw.
Children enticed into grain pot and imprisoned.
Father abandons his daughter in forest and leaves axes tied so that they move in wind.
Exposure prevented.
Exposure given up on account of newborn son's protesting stanza.
Mother induced by rival to kill her children.
Parents trick children into going on hunt, and then abandon them in forest.
Infant condemned to death saved by a smile.
Child driven out (exposed) brought up in secret.
Abandoned child cared for by mother secretly.
Abandoned child made over to its own mother (sister) acting as wet nurse.
Abandoned child cared for by grandmother (aunt, foster mother).
Abandoned child reared by herdsman.
Abandoned princess, brought up by herdsmen, becomes wife of king.
Animal aids abandoned child(ren).
Animal preserves fire for abandoned children in a clam shell.
Abandoned child reared by supernatural beings.
Deity nurtures and rears abandoned child.
Exposed children miraculously fed by angels.
Exposed infant reared at strange king's court (Joseph, Oedipus).
Abandoned child adopted and found by queen.
Travelers find exposed baby girl and take her to emperor's court.
Prince (princess) adopts exposed child.
Exposed child carried off by wild beast.
Children left at home seek exposed brothers and sisters.
Abandoned sister rescued by brothers.
Bird carries food from deserted child to starving parents.
Starving parents come to abandoned child for food.
Maltreated children transformed.
Maltreated children transformed to doves.
Abandoned children return and kill parents.
Abandoned daughter's son becomes hero.
Old woman's maledictions inform abandoned hero of his parentage and future.
Tree feeds abandoned children with its sap.
Deserted children become Thunder.
Unsuccessful attempts to kill person in successive reincarnations (transformations).
Wife banished.
Misunderstood wife banished by husband.
Wife banished for some small fault.
Queen banished for saying that man's condition depends on what kind of wife he has.
Barren wife sent away.
Wife banished because she eats by stealth.
Heroine taunted with her unknown past.
Husband expels wife because her industry indicates her peasant origin.
Unfaithful husband and his mistress persecute his wife.
Ogress-wife orders raja to turn out his six wives.
Second wife orders husband to persecute first.
Woman abandoned when with child.
Queen banished when she defeats king in argument.
Cast-off wife exposed in boat.
Cast-off wife and child exposed in boat.
Cast-off wife thrown into water.
Cast-off wife abandoned on island.
Cast-off wife abandoned in pit.
Cast-off wife's head shaven.
Cast-off wife sent to herd cows.
Abandoned queen blinded.
Cast-off wife and child abandoned in forest.
Outcast wife and her son live in poverty.
Abandoned wife hidden under a tub.
Rejected wife asks to take away only what she brought.
Outcast wife at last united with husband and children.
Outcast wife commits suicide when confronted with heads of relatives killed in revenge for her wrong-doing.
Exposed woman helped by magician.
Tale-bearer unjustly drowned for lack of proof of accusation.
Jealous wife has merchant turn out queen and son, whom he had befriended and taken into his home.
Deity appears before persecuted youngest brother and gives him a flock of sheep.
Abandoned person in woods comforted by prophet and birds.
Practice of one's religion forbidden.
Persecuted sons of co-wife.
Cruelty to animals.
Zeus gives man modesty, but it leaves when love enters.
The relative pleasures of love.
Omens in love affairs.
Blue fortunate in love matters.
Person wants to learn art of love.
Herdsman to learn art of love so he can become a holy man.
Love as inducement to idolatry.
Sexual desire as original sin.
Sluggish prince reformed by falling in love.
Gambler reformed by falling in love.
Love transforms crude individual into a polished courtier.
Angel of love compels man to fall in love.
Girl continually falling in love.
Falling in love with person never seen.
Love from mere mention or description.
Beauty of woman reported to king causes quest for her as his bride.
Love through sight of picture.
Ugly picture of suitor makes girl refuse him.
Love through sight of statue.
Youth makes statue of girl and seeks a girl like the statue.
Love through dream.
Lovers meet in their dreams.
Dream about a marriage with another's wife.
Love through sight of something belonging to unknown princess.
Love through sight of hair of unknown princess.
Love through sight of hair of unknown hero.
Love through sight of slipper of unknown princess.
Love through finding lady's wreath.
Love through seeing bouquet.
Love through seeing marks of lady's teeth in fruit which she has bitten.
Love through finding lady's handkerchief.
Love through finding lady's ornament (ring, comb, etc.).
Falling in love at receipt of girl's amulet.
Falling in love with reflection in water.
Falling in love with one's own reflection in water.
Wish for wife red as blood, white as snow, black as raven.
Love through sight in magic mirror.
Falling in love with beautiful voice.
Love through prophecy that prince shall marry the fairest.
Woman falls in love as result of husband's praise of her suitor.
Love at first sight.
Princess so lovely that everyone falls in love with her.
Man falls in love with woman he sees bathing.
Woman falls in love with man she sees bathing.
Bathing woman sees hero and falls in love with him.
Man falls in love by the sight of woman's white arms.
Man falls in love on seeing dead body of beautiful girl.
Mutual love through accidental drinking of love philtre.
Predestined lovers.
Lovers mated before birth.
Predestined wife.
Predestined husband.
Lovers fated to marry each other born at same time; identical prophecies for both.
The symptoms of love.
Love-sickness.
Night emissions from lusting after certain woman bring man near death.
Swooning for love.
Fainting away for love (or sexual desire).
Swooning for fright that lover shall be killed.
Fainting away from seeing an extraordinary beauty.
Madness from love.
Woman takes on lover's deformity (while conversing with him).
Boy turns red and white from love.
Lover refuses food and drink.
Waiting for twenty-two years to see a beauty.
Man promises to sacrifice self in order to marry beloved.
Miraculous healing from a passionate love.
Attention distracted by sight of beloved.
Finger cut because of absorption in the charms of beloved.
Unusual success in love.
Thirty young girls fall in love with a young man.
Seventy princesses in love with hero.
Hundred rajas fall in love with one woman.
Princess falls in love with a man disguised as a woman.
Falling in love--miscellaneous.
Boy and girl fall in love when curtain is pulled aside.
Lovers' meeting: hero in service of heroine.
Lovers' meeting: hero in service of lady's father.
Lovers' meeting: heroine heals hero's wounds.
Lovers' meeting: hero in heroine's father's prison from which she helps him to escape.
Man transformed to animal kept as pet by heroine.
Lovers meet at social gathering.
Sudden love as woman pours drink for man at festival.
Falling in love while playing game.
Falling in love while playing draughts.
Lovers' rendezvous.
Lover late at rendezvous; detained by incessant talker.
Magic sleep causes lover to miss appointment with mistress.
Fountain (well) as lovers' rendezvous.
Pavilion as lovers' rendezvous.
Girl intoxicates nurse to keep rendezvous with lover.
Hesitation in making up mind spoils lovers' rendezvous.
Lover goes to see his beloved in her husband's (or her father's) house, defiant of the danger.
Girl sleeps in garden to meet lover.
Lover finds lady in tomb apparently dead.
"Poisoned" woman revives.
Despairing lover at lady's tomb takes poison.
Communication of lovers.
Communication of lovers through hole in wall.
Communication of lovers through hole in floor.
Lovers' signal.
Conversation of lovers.
Unacquainted lovers converse in sign language.
Lovers converse in figures of speech not understood by others.
Lover buys admission to woman's room.
Suitor outwits watchman to meet lady.
To reach beauty young man climbs eight fences watched by one hundred guards.
Heroine hidden by stepmother when suitor comes.
Girl carefully guarded from suitors.
Girl carefully guarded by mother.
Girl carefully guarded by father.
Girl carefully guarded from suitors by hag.
Cat and dog as guards of imprisoned beauty.
King likes his daughter so much that he does not wish to marry her to anyone.
King unwilling to marry his daughter to a man not her equal.
Mythical being asks for girl in marriage.
Wooing by emissary.
Wooing emissary wins lady's love for himself.
Wooing emissary admitted to woman's room.
King wooes through his daughter and the princess's maiden.
Match arranged by means of pictures of both parties.
Messengers seek wife for hero to resemble image they carry with them.
Bride purchased.
Prince buys twig (flower) (enchanted girl) from her mother.
Purchase money instead of bride given to suitor to settle dispute.
Bride purchased for her weight in gold.
Dowry given at marriage of daughter.
Amount of dowry fixed by custom in bride's family.
Attempt to purchase wife.
Rich girl gives poor suitor necklace with which to pay her bride-price.
Princess asked for in return for sparing palace.
Absent man's wife demanded in law court in payment of debt by creditor.
Village given to bride-to-be as part of her dowry.
Matchmakers.
Matchmakers arrange weddings.
Incognito prophet as matchmaker.
Christ as matchmaker.
Saint as matchmaker.
God occupied with matchmaking.
Barber as matchmaker.
Choosing bride by horoscope.
Girl as wooer.
Princess declares her love for lowly hero.
Princess declares love for courtier.
Servant-girl helps prince if he will make her chief wife.
Lady in love with ruler enlists friend's aid.
Little girl will give prince marvelous objects if he promises to marry her later.
Gift made by bride to husband.
Princess feigns sickness to woo hero.
Person (man, woman) exhibits figure.
Maidens (women) request hero to exhibit figure.
Princess elects herself husband from the young men present.
Princess declares love by presenting cup of drink at feast.
Harper as love messenger sent by girl.
Princess offers reward for securing prince as husband for her.
Princess transforms self to woo.
Means of attracting sweetheart.
Bride attracted by music.
Bride attracted by flute.
Image of God of Love sent to fetch bride.
Forgotten fiancйe sends lover false diamond inscribed with Christ
's last words: "Oh Lord why hast Thou forsaken me?" Lover returns.
Beautiful woman enticed by wonderful flower.
Declaration of love.
Lover declares himself by showing her own reflection to his beloved.
Wooing the strong and beautiful bride.
Betrothal.
Betrothal by lovers' drinking each other's blood.
Parting lovers pledge not to marry for seven years.
At betrothal maid makes shirt for her lover.
Betrothal ceremony.
Liquor brewed for betrothal.
At betrothal ceremony both parties drink out of the loving-cup.
Engagement ritual: intermediary sprinkles girl with flour.
Token of betrothal sent to parents of a proposed bridegroom; acceptance means agreement to proposed match.
Betrothal by gold ring.
Dying lover sends his sweetheart his ring.
Children born on same night betrothed.
Betrothal of hero to princess while both are still in cradle.
Children ten and twelve years old betroth themselves.
Unborn children promised in marriage to each other.
Princess to marry first man who asks for her.
Man to marry first woman who gives him alms.
Minister's daughter to marry first bachelor who arrives.
Princess's husband selected by elephant bowing to him.
King seeks bride only because counsellors insist.
Betrothal restrictions.
Maiden will not give her troth to two brothers successively.
Girl formally betrothed can never marry another should anything happen to prevent her from marrying the first.
Mercenary soldier (exile) unsuitable as husband.
Help in wooing.
Grateful dead man helps hero win princess.
Grateful little boys help hero win girl.
Prince offered as prize.
Marriage to prince as reward for disenchanting him.
Marriage to prince as reward for curing him.
Prince will marry girl who will rescue him from embarrassing position.
King marries girl who frees him from the clutches of magic doll.
Princess offered as prize.
Princess offered as prize to rescuer.
Earl's daughter as reward to knight who helped to kill fierce buffalo.
Princess as prize to man who saves his country.
Vanquished king gives hero his daughter and control over his kingdom.
Girl marries hunter when he promises to return to monkey brothers their human form.
Wooing--miscellaneous motifs.
100 brothers seek 100 sisters as wives.
Three brothers married to three sisters.
Seven princesses sought by seven princes.
Parents affiance children without their knowledge.
Parents wooing one of seven daughters for their son.
Parents decide princess can marry no one who weighs more than she.
Man gives daughter in return for his release.
Raja betroths his daughter to visitor's son as a compensation for murder.
Bashful suitor directs his wooing to an oak.
Father punishes daughter by giving her to poor man in marriage.
Women scorned in love.
Accidental death fate of woman scorned in love.
Woman avenges scorned love.
Woman scorned in love complains of man's coldness.
Woman won and then scorned.
Maid eloping with pretended lover is forced by him to strip.
Nobleman marries poor girl and then abandons her.
Prince marries scornful girl and punishes her.
Woman sets out to kill man who has won and then scorned her.
Woman entertains two lovers on alternate nights.
Man scorned by his beloved.
Suitors ill-treated.
Mortal woman rejects deity for human lover.
Scorn of unloved suitor punished.
Scorned lover kills successful one.
Rejected suitors' revenge.
Unrequited love expressed in song (poem).
Lady humiliates lover after he leaves wife for her.
Scorned lover becomes an anchorite.
Divine hand catches scorned lover as he plunges from minaret top to die.
Princess calls her suitors ugly names.
Maid vexes suitor by pretense.
Death from love.
Man dies at bedside of dying sweetheart.
Death from unrequited love.
Scorned lover kills self.
Scorned lover (woman) threatens to kill self.
Girl falls dead on lover's body.
Man dies when the bride who had been denied him kisses him.
Sick lover dies from exertion of embracing beloved.
Girl kills herself after lover's death.
Woman dies on hearing of lover's or husband's death.
Wife swallows hot coal and dies because her husband is unfaithful.
Bath of blood of beloved to cure love-sick empress.
Hero and Leander.
Girl drowns as she swims to see her lover.
Lovers treacherously separated.
Woman mourns dead lover.
Woman thinking lover dead erects cenotaph and mourns before it.
Princess hangs up weapons of dead lover as continual reminder.
The Pot of Basil.
Lover's body kept embalmed for years by grieving mistress.
Ring of Fastrada.
Lovers buried in same grave.
Rival suitors kill each other over woman's love.
Lovers die at the same time.
Mistress springs into dead lover's grave.
Girl and boy promised to each other by parents both die when they see each other after girl's marriage to another.
Lovers forbidden to marry starve themselves to death.
Woman stricken by plague and forsaken by her husband is sought out by unsuccessful lover and dies in his arms.
Love kept up even after one of the parties is married to another.
Tragic love--miscellaneous motifs.
Woman falls in love with dying warrior.
Princess married to mortally wounded prince and both left in jungle.
Woman sacrifices herself in order to save beloved.
Unequals in love.
Giant's daughter loves hero.
Giant's daughter has child by hero.
Love of mortal and devil.
Devil would be maid's paramour.
Love of mortal and supernatural person.
Supernatural lover performs girl's work.
Love of goddess for mortal.
God enamored of mortal.
God falls in love with a woman of low caste.
Age and youth in love.
"Do not go where an old man has a young wife": counsel proved wise by experience.
Mature married woman in love with callow youth.
Old teacher wishes to marry his young girl pupil.
Rich and poor in love.
Rich girl in love with poor boy.
Daughter of merchant develops intimacy with slave.
Noble and lowly in love.
Lowly person falls in love with king (queen).
Courtier in love with queen.
King (prince) in love with a lowly girl.
King covets subject's wife.
Prince falls in love with minister's daughter.
Prince falls in love with merchant's daughter exposed in jungle.
Princess falls in love with lowly boy.
Sultan's daughter in love with captured knight.
Princess falls in love with knight.
Hostile amazon's daughter loves hero.
Princess falls in love with a king who becomes a slave.
Princess runs away with hunchback.
Unequals in love--miscellaneous.
Brahmin in love with washerwoman.
Falling in love with someone of a different caste.
Rivals in love.
Girl promised to three different suitors; because she is unable to settle the dispute she eats poison and dies.
The triangle plot and its solutions.
Young wife of old man (king) loves (is loved by) younger man.
Would-be unfaithful wife.
Three victims of love.
Girl leaves rescuer for younger lover.
Girl leaves rescuer and elopes with his friend.
Girl mistakenly elopes with the wrong lover.
Hero falls asleep while sweetheart is being married to another.
Letter falsified and elopement with false lover arranged.
In darkness of night trickster instead of her chosen lover elopes with girl.
Lover kills his rival brother.
Mother and daughter as rivals in love.
Rival lovers do battle for girl.
Sisters in love with same man.
Father and son as rivals in love.
Parricide because of father-son rivalry for girl's love.
Rival in love killed.
Rivals contesting for the same girl.
Rival suitors discomfit each other.
Two smiths as rivals for love of girl.
The tailor and the smith as rivals.
Older warrior preferred as suitor.
Three lovers mourn for dead girl: one throws himself into her funeral pyre; another gathers together the ashes and vows to spend his life
sitting upon them; third resolves to turn fakir.
Fate of disappointed lover.
Disappointed lover becomes a wild man in the woods.
Disappointed lover turns hermit.
Lover becomes friar and sweetheart nun when unable to marry.
Disappointed lover kills self.
Disappointed lover buys poison for girl.
Tragic love between a Pari and a mortal man Lover opposed to sweetheart's relatives.
Princess falls in love with father's enemy.
Lover kills his lady's relatives in fight.
Lovers reunited after many adventures.
Father opposed to daughter's marriage.
Love--additional motifs.
Death from excess of women.
Girl wants to marry lover even if he is mutilated.
Hero returns and marries first love.
Foreign king wages war to enforce demand for princess in marriage.
Rejected suitor wages war.
Victor demands defeated king's daughter (widow) in marriage.
Marriage of mortal and supernatural being.
Marriage to supernatural wives who disappear.
Supernatural wife summoned by bell.
Marriage of a mortal and a god.
Maiden chooses disguised god as husband.
Man marries the daughter of a god.
Woman from sky-world marries mortal man.
Hero marries star in form of girl.
Star-wife gives birth to a human baby.
Marriage of mortal and moon.
Sun has a woman for his wife.
Marriage of man with woman who has come from an egg.
God as lover of giantess (18 giantesses).
Marriage of mortal and dwarf.
Marriage of mortal and angel.
Marriage to man alive by night but dead by day.
Sorceress marries a man every morning and transforms him to some kind of animal in the evening.
Man marries ogre's daughter.
Marriage of person and object.
Marriage of girl to a dagger.
Marriage of girl to a sword.
Marriage of girl to a drum.
Marriage of girl to an idol.
Marriage with a tree.
Marriage to tree by day, man by night.
Marriage to a flower.
Marriage to a gourd.
Marriage to doll.
Marriage to river.
Plant wife (in form of a woman).
Marriage to a statue.
Girl (man) married to (enamored of) a monster.
Monster husband invisible.
Marriage of dragon girl to orphan boy.
Unequal marriage.
Knight weds peasant girl.
Noblewoman weds shepherd.
Princess marries courtier.
Princess marries lowly man.
Ruler marries fugitive noblewoman.
Wealthy girl marries deformed and penniless philosopher.
Princess marries saint.
Rich girl marries fakir.
Man weds his bondmaid.
Rich girl marries servant.
King (rich man) weds common girl.
Infertile raja marries beggar woman in hope of having a son.
Marriage by royal order.
Lazy boy and industrious girl matched.
Fool given intelligent wife; lame man hardworking wife.
Blind girl marries lame man.
Fantastic marriage.
Marriage of Mother Earth and ogre.
Marriage of mountain and cockle-shell.
Marriage of earth and sky.
Marriage restrictions.
Princess has unrestricted choice of husband.
Father promises that girl may wed only man of her choice.
Relative's consent to marriage necessary.
Brother's consent for sister's marriage needed.
Father's consent to son's (daughter's) marriage necessary.
Girl must marry father's choice.
King chooses bridegroom for daughter from boys' pictures.
Father demands that son break all relations with his beloved.
Son refuses to marry father's choice.
Marriage against will of parents.
Younger child may not marry before elder.
Eldest daughter will marry man only if he will marry all her sisters too.
Widow may not remarry.
Exogamy.
Marriage within clans sanctioned because of incest-origin of tribe.
Girl will marry on condition she is to be only wife.
King may not marry girl who has been wife of another.
Different religion as obstacle for marriage.
Brahmin may marry from all four castes.
Preparation for wedding.
Girl fattened before wedding.
Parents become servants to secure funds for wedding.
Travel to wedding.
Faithful servant accompanies bride to new home.
Royal bride conducted by embassy to husband's kingdom.
Drummer beats drums before bride on way to wedding.
Bridegroom and his men come for the bride.
Mounting upon horse to fetch bride.
Groom's mother visits bride-to-be and puts the betrothal ring on her finger.
Conduct of bridal couple before ceremony.
Bridal couple must never see each other before wedding.
Betrothed parties do not see each other until night of the wedding.
Man who has once been married helps groom to dress for wedding.
Wedding ceremony.
Marriage formula: "You are mine and I am yours".
Touching of privates considered a marriage pact.
Wedding by proxy.
Sword and shield as proxy at wedding ceremony.
Groom's sword makes vermillion mark on bride's forehead as wedding ceremony.
Marriage by exchange of garlands.
Marriage by drinking festival.
The bride must have someone to give her away, usually her father or brother.
Two or more weddings at one time as the end of a tale.
Wedding ceremony in church.
Marriage custom: going round and round fire (pillar, etc.).
Bride and groom drink from same cup as part of ceremony.
Bodies of would-be bride and groom besmeared with turmeric and mustard-oil.
Bride and groom look into a big mirror while old member of family knocks both their heads together.
Wedding-canopy over bride and groom.
Breaking a glass during wedding ceremony.
Accompaniments of wedding.
Wedding feast.
Rice thrown at weddings.
Amusements at wedding.
Dancing at wedding.
Marriage odes sung at wedding feast.
Gifts at wedding.
Gifts for bridal couple by a special ceremony with the bride on a bridebench.
Parting gifts after wedding.
Bride scatters presents among groom's relations.
Customs following wedding.
Advice to a parting bride.
Bride and bridegroom conducted to bridal bed.
Bride and groom simultaneously touch hearthstones and put one foot down inside threshold as they enter groom's house.
Groom invited after marriage ceremony into female apartments to eat wedding breakfast with the bride.
Groom becomes a member of bride's family.
Bride (and party) fetched by groom and party after wedding.
Journey to husband's home accompanied by attendants.
Assignment of bride to another.
Dying man assigns bride to his brother.
Wives exchanged.
Hero assigns the bride he has won to another.
Infant marriages.
Polygamous marriages.
Polygyny.
Marriage to five women, each with separate duties.
Man requires seven women.
Seven wives each to have the husband one day a week.
Man married to several sisters.
Second wife taken because first is barren.
Competition in ale-brewing between king's two wives.
Man's two wives each claim part of his body: they torment him.
Man pulled down stairs by his two wives.
Polygamist must love all his wives.
Man's senior wife ugly but diligent; his second, beautiful but lazy.
Polygamy so that head wife may be quickly replaced for wrongdoing.
Polyandry.
Several men marry one woman.
Woman requires thirty men.
Marriages made at annual festival.
Matriarchy.
Son named for mother.
Year's respite from unwelcome marriage.
Respite ruse.
Father giving away daughter makes condition: son-in-law not to see daughter as his wife during one year.
Six months' respite from unwelcome marriage.
Thirty days' respite from unwelcome marriage.
Other respites from unwelcome marriage (three months, two years, etc.).
Bride wounded accidentally on way home.
Bridegroom slain on way to bride.
Cruel stepmother enchants stepdaughter on eve of wedding.
Old beggar transforms wedding party into wolves.
Marriage for a night to evade law.
Marriage for a night to insure heir of warrior destined to be slain (next day) in battle.
Affianced wife of chieftain falls in love with another man at betrothal feast, drugs the company with sleeping potion, and forces man of
her choice to elope with her.
Jus primae noctis.
King deflowers all twelve year old girls.
Lover allowed to sleep with woman first few nights after her marriage to another.
Feast of "bedding and handspreading" before consummation of marriage.
Girl may remain virgin for three days after marriage.
Consummation of marriage postponed until revelation by dream of future of family has been secured.
One year to elapse between ceremony and consummation of marriage.
Twenty-four hours to elapse before consummation of marriage.
Bride and groom separated on wedding night.
Three years asked before consummation of marriage as trick.
Consummation of marriage postponed till couple return home.
For first six months bride of prince is only to sit an hour or two in his house.
Bride afraid of intercourse refuses consummation until judge orders it in court.
Bride refuses to sleep with ugly groom.
Bridegroom must be taught sexual intercourse.
Bridegroom driven from bridal chamber by magic.
Dangers to husband in bridal chamber.
All husbands have perished on bridal night.
Bridal chamber filled with coiled snakes.
Bridal chamber invaded by magic dragon (serpent).
Grateful dead man kills princess's monster husband.
Bride's monster-father tries to kill husband, but is defeated.
Murderous bride.
Strong bride tries to stifle husband in bed.
Hostile brides kill husbands in the bridal bed.
Magic perils threaten bridal couple.
Falling furniture threatens bridal couple.
Bridegroom magically impelled to leave his bride.
Dangerous husband.
Death from intercourse.
Marriage by force.
Marriage destroys friendship.
The happy couple: wife blind, husband deaf.
Peace in marriage more important than truth.
Faithfulness in marriage.
Faithful wife.
Faithful husband.
Faithfulness to marriage in death.
Wife dies so that husband's death may be postponed.
Woman drowns herself as sacrifice to water-gods to save husband's boat from capsizing.
Husband learning from augurs that his wife will die if he saves self from serpent, lets self be bitten to death.
Wife offers to sacrifice her right arm for husband's safe return.
Female deer offers herself instead of her mate, who has been captured.
Wife's suicide at husband's death.
Wife throws herself on husband's funeral pyre.
Wife prefers to be burned together with husband even though she was forced to marry him and she has helped to prepare the revenge.
Wife promises to die with husband.
Husband and wife kill themselves so as not to be separated.
Husband falls on sword when his wife dies.
Wife hangs self because her husband has been killed.
Spouse's corpse kept after death.
Wife's corpse kept after death.
Husband's corpse kept after death.
Wife will not give up dead body of husband to God of Death.
Man becomes a hermit after his wife's death.
Widowed she-fox rejects suitors who do not resemble her deceased husband.
Girl forced to marry before sweetheart's return is faithful to her husband.
Wife unwilling to deceive her husband for the man she loves.
Excessive grief at husband's or wife's death.
Wife dies of grief for death of husband.
Wife swoons realizing her husband is dead.
Man kills self in grief for wife.
Grieving man goes to die where his wife's corpse lies.
Loving couple die of separation.
Constancy of wife brings husband back to life.
Husband (wife) sickens as result of separation from spouse.
Faithfulness of married couple in misfortune.
Wife carries mutilated husband on her back so that he may beg.
Wife offers starving husband (father) milk from her breasts.
Husband nourishes starving wife with his own flesh and blood.
Wife puts out one of her eyes to show sympathy with her husband.
Fugitive returns to his family so that they may collect reward from his capture.
Woman swims nightly to husband's prison and arranges his escape.
Wife travels for years with sick husband in order to have him cured.
Wife alone does not desert leprous husband.
Woman sells her hair to feed starving husband.
Loathly bridegroom carried on back in basket by wife.
Wife refuses to become unfaithful although she knows her husband to be so.
Woman' s naivitй proves her fidelity.
Wife hides husband's unfaithfulness from emperor and even shelters his mistress.
Husband tempted by own wife disguised in fine clothes: says he will touch no woman save his wife.
Wife and husband believe each unfaithful at the slightest provocation.
Faithless wife causes her husband to go insane.
The faithless widow.
Faithless widow betrothed anew at husband's funeral.
Faithless widow fans husband's grave.
Faithless widow ready to marry messenger who brings news of husband's death.
Faithless widow offers city to killer of her husband if he will marry her.
Faithless widow's heartlessness repels the new suitor.
Faithless widow marries slayer of husband.
Woman deserts husband for unworthy lover.
Woman consorts with leper.
Adulteress chooses loathly paramour.
Adulteress poisons husband in order to be with swineherd.
Woman enamored of repulsive and abusive lover.
Faithless wife pays her paramour for enjoying herself with him.
Wronged wife goes to wronged husband.
Husband transforms himself to test his wife's faithfulness.
Woman enamored of an unknown knight in a tournament loses interest when she finds that it is her husband.
Old man married to young, unfaithful wife.
Adulteress on her death-bed reveals the illegitimacy of her children.
Series of husbands try in vain to control adulteress.
Fight between husband and lover for kingdom and wife.
Woman reveals whereabouts of husband to enemy in revenge for desertion.
Woman reveals whereabouts of husband to hungry bear in revenge for desertion.
Man unfaithful even on wedding night.
Object stolen (left) as token that infidelity has been discovered.
Substituted sword.
Faithlessness in marriage--miscellaneous.
Adulterous wife convicted commits suicide.
Husband and wife (king and queen) each unfaithful to other.
The shrewish wife.
Man ejected from heaven for folly of marrying twice.
Christ, not having married, knew nothing about suffering.
Man reprimanded by judge for marrying several times.
Avoiding the shrewish wife.
Belfagor.
Devil flees shrewish wife and enters body of a duke.
Late husband chooses to remain in Purgatory rather than to return to his shrewish wife.
Husband chooses to go to hell rather than join shrewish wife in heaven.
Man in hell declares that life there is much better than on earth with his wife.
Man had rather remain transformed to mule than to live with his shrewish wife.
Man forces devil to take back the shrewish wife.
Minstrel throws wife into sea: her tongue the heaviest thing on board.
Thief overhears and oversees quarrel of two jealous wives.
Taming the shrew.
Shrew tamed by setting another shrew against her.
Husband dons armor and forces the household to shout: "Long live the Master!" Takes off his breeches and dares his wife to put them on.
Wife becomes obedient on seeing husband slay a recalcitrant horse.
Husband tries to reform wife by killing a recalcitrant horse in her presence.
The wicked queen reformed.
Shrewish wife driven from home but when in danger, runs to husband and receives protection.
St. Peter's wife meets him with a broom handle.
Socrates and Zanthippe: "After thunder rain".
Strength in words, in herbs, and in stones.
The browbeaten husband from under the table: "The man always has a man's heart."
Husband will not search for shrewish wife who has run away from him.
Shrewish wife gives husband heating every morning.
Husband consoled by seeing woman even more shrewish than his wife.
Wife beats her husband and eats up everything he earns.
Fakir thankful for shrewish wife: she is a thorn in his flesh and warns him from neglecting the ways of righteousness.
The overbearing wife.
Unsuccessful search for man who can rule his wife.
Cock shows browbeaten husband how to rule his wife.
King sees how male stork kills his unfaithful wife.
Monkey (jackal, etc.) shows husband how to rule his wife.
King tells jackal his statistics are wrong since there are more men than women.
Wife threatens husband with death if he will not tell secrets.
Prize for husband who rules his wife.
Man claims prize (boots) as ruler of his house, but is afraid to carry the boots lest he soil his clean shirt and anger his wife.
Men rulers in their house asked to sing.
Wife threatens suicide if she does not have her own way.
Vexed woman brings pot down on husband's head in presence of guest.
The nagging wife.
Nagging wife drives husband to prepare for suicide.
Woman advised that nagging will never make a husband virtuous.
Saint composes hymn to free himself from the mala vita in which he lives with his wife.
The disobedient wife.
The husband shows his wife poison to avoid: she takes it and dies.
Husband forbids wife to ride on the dog: she immediately does so and is bitten.
Man with obedient wife looks young; with disobedient, old.
Man forbids wife to open chest.
Husband warns wife not to enter empty furnace.
Disobedient wife punished.
Wife refuses to bring husband warm water: is beaten.
The obstinate wife or husband.
The obstinate wife: cutting with knife or scissors.
The obstinate wife sought for up-stream.
The obstinate wife: sign of the louse.
The obstinate wife: the third egg.
The obstinate wife: insists on eating three of the five eggs.
The dish which the husband detests and the wife keeps serving him.
Obstinate wife refuses to take cover off boiling kettle.
Man warns his wife that he has dreamed that she is attacked by a wolf.
The quarrelsome wife or husband.
Quarrel between husband and wife explained by their having been previously a tiger and a dog.
Quarrelsome wife conquered by silent husband.
Medicine against quarrelling: the wife must take one dose and keep it in her mouth for ten minutes as soon as her husband is angry.
Quarrelsome wife reproved by a good whipping.
Jealous wife or husband.
Heavenly maidens are not jealous.
Woman jealous of a fair maid in her house.
King's wives jealous of his attention to pet animal.
Jealousy of rival wives.
Wife exposes bald head of second wife to disgrace her.
Jealous wife (mistress) transforms rival to hound.
Decision not to punish a jealous husband: he already suffers enough.
Husband jealous of wife who goes to confession is punished by the priest.
Jealous husband kills nightingale which his wife gets up to hear.
Woman's scented hair attracts deer: husband jealous.
Jealous king causes massacre of handsome young captives.
Husband's unjust jealousy forces wife to commit adultery.
Wife repays husband's supposed adultery by doing likewise.
Jealous husband objects to wife's enjoyment of intercourse: thinks she has had previous experience.
Jealous husband spends all his earnings as skillful smith bribing courtiers not to talk to his wife, and at last locks her up in hut in
the forest.
Trickster sends jealous wife after husband: steals food.
Jealous wife ties husband to her so that he cannot get away to meet another woman.
The curious wife.
The curious wife: wait and see.
Husband insists on knowing wife's secret.
Wife insists upon knowing husband's secret.
The ungrateful wife.
Husband takes wife's place and receives punishment for her adultery.
The hypocritical wife.
Jewels of Cornelia.
Beautiful woman married to hideous man: he is thankful, she patient.
The neglected wife.
Woman gets rid of impotent husband and remarries.
Mistress of impotent husband sends her maid to find a man for her.
The silent wife.
Silent wife brought to speech by dangers to her husband.
Wife cannot keep secret.
The spendthrift wife.
Sex hospitality.
Sex hospitality given to druid.
Sex hospitality given to king (prince).
Handmaid given as wife unto husband by barren wife.
First (barren) wife insists her husband should take second wife.
Wife withholds intercourse from husband to enforce demand.
Frightened wife shows marks of affection for husband.
Mistress has always said her "Aves": Virgin Mary refuses to help wife against her rival.
Sight of mistress's ring causes husband to withhold himself from his wife.
Why separation of a good woman from a bad man is a benefit.
Wife refuses to sleep with detested husband.
Wife curses unbeloved husband who attempts to force her.
Why widow does not remarry.
Wife keeps vow never to wed after her husband's death.
Wife sold unwillingly by husband.
Wives traded.
Husband (wife) of supernatural being longs for old home and visits relatives.
Husband's indiscreet boast about wife brings about his death.
Wife buys (sells) privilege of sleeping one night with husband.
Reconciliation of separated couple.
Other aspects of married life--miscellaneous.
Sleeping with head laid in wife's lap as sign of tenderness.
Wife gives wise warning to husband.
Man warned by wife against stepping on red cloth.
Wife warns departing hero against seductions of women.
Sacrifice of virginity.
Methods of ascetics.
Ceremonial continence.
"Night of Sabbath" (Friday night) only devoted to conjugal pleasures.
Woman averse to marriage.
Woman's aversion to marriage motivated through a dream.
Flight of maiden (bridegroom) to escape marriage.
Woman prefers to remain chaste rather than keep an impotent husband.
Girl commits suicide rather than marry man she does not love.
Girl remains a virgin after both her suitors are killed in battle.
Maiden queen prefers to fight instead of marrying, but is at last conquered and married.
Saint's daughter dies when wooed.
Woman dies when spoiled of her sanctity.
Ravished girl's virginity restored by Virgin Mary.
Ravished girl's virginity restored by saint.
Pregnant nun's virginity restored through power of saint.
Father kills daughter lest she become prostitute.
Father kills daughter lest she become the property of a tyrant.
Continence in marriage.
Marital continence by mutual agreement.
The continent husband.
The audacious water and the continent husband.
Wife reproves continent husband by showing conduct of cock and hens.
Wife reforms continent husband by having walls of bedroom painted with erotic scenes.
Woman continent in two marriages to become a nun.
The repression of lust.
Repression of lust through sitting in water.
Repression of lust through prayer.
Repression of lust through preaching.
Repression of lust through fasting.
Man and woman in chaste love for twenty-five years.
Monk finds that only abuse and cruel treatment from his fellow monks can conquer his lust.
Wife proves her faithfulness.
Oft-proved fidelity.
Virginity saved in spite of torture.
Girl kills man who threatens her virtue.
Woman escaping from slavery kills man who would ravish her.
Bride puts to flight man who attempts to ravish her.
Widow dons late husband's armor to put would-be ravisher to flight.
Wife escapes lust of king by shaming him.
Woman escapes king's lust by inducing bad breath.
Girl gives up wealth and flees to escape lecherous emperor.
Wife sets fire to house to escape undesired lover.
Escape from undesired lover by miracle.
Maid pledged to celibacy is given, at her prayer, a beard.
Girl named Mary has virginity spared by knight who has bought her.
Girl's virginity spared by knight when he sees her surrounded by the Virgin and her train.
Girl prays to Virgin to spare her virginity.
Magic sickness (discomfort) prevents lover from raping woman.
In answer to maiden's prayer saint changes boat's course and guides it to another place.
Girl strikes man who tries to kiss her.
Woman kicks lecherous monk down the stairs.
Princess threatens to kill amorous king.
Undesired lover drugged and carried out.
Girl pleads vow of chastity to repel lover.
Escape from undesired lover by strategy.
Princess escapes from undesired lover by fleeing disguised as a bishop.
Princess evades unwelcome lover by putting on foul-smelling skin-coat.
Girl's virginity saved by the kindness of an emissary.
Chaste woman resists advances of a conqueror.
Chaste woman promises conqueror drug of invulnerability.
Suicide to save virginity.
Girls drown selves to save their virginity.
Man is killed defending sweetheart's honor.
Martyrdom to preserve virginity.
Mutilation to repel lover.
Maiden sends to her lecherous lover (brother) her eyes (hands, breasts) which he has admired.
Woman successfully prays for disease to repel lover.
Saint plucks out her eye when urged to marry.
Maidens befoul selves with blood to escape rape.
Woman raises sores on her body to preserve chastity.
Princess takes on loathsome disguise to avoid unwelcome demon-lover.
Girl escapes from undesired lover by cutting off her plaits of hair.
Girl lives in sepulchre to preserve chastity.
Man unsuccessfully tempted by woman.
Monk unsuccessfully tempted in nunnery.
Knight unsuccessfully tempted by host's wife.
Woman masks as man to deceive anchorite.
No place secret enough for fornication.
Anchorite saved by a miracle.
Saint flogs woman who tempts him.
Saint sleeps with maidens without sinning.
Monk unsuccessfully tempted by woman he formerly loved.
Monk yells "thief" to repel temptress.
Man tempted by fiend in woman's shape.
Woman sent by deity to tempt self-righteous anchorite.
Man mutilates himself to remove temptation.
Tempted man bites out his tongue and spits it in temptress's face.
Tempted man burns off his fingers.
Man disfigures his face to remove temptation.
Tempted rabbi tears out his eyes to escape temptation.
Tempted holy man mutilates genitals.
Hero cuts off head and wraps it in napkin so he will not be tempted by sight of virgins.
Monk cures himself of desire for dead sweetheart.
Monk goes into desert to avoid temptation of women, the prime source of sin.
Saint exposes self to temptation but preserves chastity.
Sight or touch of woman as source of sin.
Woman's girdle as source of sin.
Woman's voice as source of sin.
Woman wagers that she can seduce anchorite.
Saint's enemy, wishing to cause saint to violate his oath never to "commit folly and utter lie," induces his daughter to tempt saint.
Virtuous man seduced by woman.
Ascetic successfully tempted: kills son born in consequence.
Sword of chastity.
Bed-cover of chastity.
Boy sleeps between couple to safeguard their virtue.
Object set between beds of couple sleeping in same room.
Chaste sleeping together to torment woman.
Chaste sleeping together with six sisters-in-law one by one.
Young man sleeps on girl's mat without touching her to signify his desire.
Nun refuses to look at man.
Nun so opposed to seeing men that she refuses to see St.
Martin.
The boy who had never seen a woman: the Satans.
Boy is denied sight of all women except his mother and his nurse until he is eighteen.
Adulterous love changed into a chaste one.
Heavy chastity belt imposed on wife.
Young man betrothed to statue.
Man leaves earthly bride for service of Virgin.
Imprisoned virgin to prevent knowledge of men (marriage, impregnation).
Girl intended for marriage with king cloistered.
Wife imprisoned in tower (house) to preserve chastity.
Guarded maiden first seen by hero in church.
Guarded maiden first seen by hero in otherworld.
Attempt to keep wife chaste by carrying her in box.
Other futile attempts to keep wife chaste.
Message of chastity: uncooked meat left behind.
Virgin Mary as protectress of illicit lovers.
Pregnant abbess secretly delivered of her child by Virgin Mary.
Master discovers that slave girl he wants to marry is a near relative.
Father-daughter incest.
Lecherous father.
Father by trickery secures priest's advice to marry his own daughter.
Father feigning death returns in disguise and seduces daughter.
Girl got with child by intoxicated father.
Daughters seduce drunken father.
Mother-son incest.
Mother guilty of incest with son forgiven by Pope (Virgin Mary).
Incognito son tempts mother to see whether all women are wicked.
Mother guilty of incest with son whose honor she is testing.
Boy courts his mother, is driven off by father.
Brother-sister incest.
Lecherous brother.
Brother repels incestuous sister.
Lovers reared as brother and sister learn to their joy that they are not related.
Two lovers give each other up when they learn that they are brother and sister.
Brother-sister marriage.
Suicide to prevent brother-sister marriage.
When boy cannot have his sister for a wife he asks for one of her eyes and ears instead.
Son-in-law seduces mother-in-law.
Mother-in-law seduces son-in-law.
Lustful stepmother.
Lustful stepfather.
Man marries his aunt (mother's sister).
Youth attempts to seduce his grandmother.
Brother-in-law seduces (seeks to seduce) sister-in-law.
Wife born to be prostitute.
Woman disappointed in love threatens to become prostitute.
Prostitution to avoid starvation.
Prostitute has favorite lover.
Devil causes girl to become prostitute.
Bawds.
Mother acts as procuress of bedmate for her son.
Getting advice from a woman in bed.
Hero learns feats of arms through gratifying woman's lust.
Prostitute gets advice from customer.
Woman sells favors for particular purpose.
Woman sells favors to obtain a jewel.
Woman sells favors to obtain many jewels.
Woman sacrifices her honor to free her husband (brother) from prison.
Woman commits adultery to obtain aid for husband in battle.
Woman sells favors for beautiful clothes.
Women sells favors for new shoes.
Parents urge girl to trade her favors for truce with hostile warrior.
Woman gives favors to pay for help across river.
Woman sells favors for large sum of money (property).
Princess gives herself to Turks of her own accord in order to save her people.
Bed-partner to receive payment from first man she meets in the morning.
Girl dares not receive gift from a man as it may be supposed to be payment for her favors.
Sacred prostitution.
Woman enjoys the ravishings of the enemy.
Person enamored of an object.
Woman enamored of a river.
Women cohabit with magic house pillars.
Tree as wife.
Lesbian love.
Lesbian love: women give birth to monsters as result.
Homosexual love (male).
Bestiality.
Sheep born with human head as a result of bestiality.
Foal born of Loki after dealing with mythical stallion.
Homocentaurus born as a result of bestiality.
Children are spotted like leopards as result of bestiality.
Pig born with head like that of man as a result of bestiality.
Necrophilism: sexual intercourse with dead human body.
The amorous bite.
Rape.
Fines imposed for rape.
Man unwittingly ravishes his own sister.
Wild man as ravisher of women.
Husband sends wife poison to avoid having her ravished by the enemy.
Unknown (clandestine) paramour.
Unknown paramour discovered by string clue.
Hero lies by princess in magic sleep and begets child.
Intercourse with sleeping girl.
Incognito mistress.
Adultery.
Adulteress roughly treated by her lover.
Queen's illicit passion for diseased man.
Queen commits adultery with low-born man.
Adulteress sells self to devil for money.
Wife seduces husband's servant (pupil).
King takes subject's wife while her husband is sent away.
Queen begets son with duke while the king is in war.
Woman advises husband to kill guest else, she will make him chase husband and marry her instead.
Day husband: night husband.
Maidservant given to lover's companion as bed-partner.
Fruit-picking time used for sexual promiscuity.
Man has a son not his wife's; wife has a daughter not her husband's.
Queen makes all men who come to serve her copulate with her.
Black nipples of girl's breasts reveal her loss of virginity.
Conception from eating.
Queen and maidservant conceive from eating same food.
Conception from eating a fruit.
Conception from eating apple.
Conception from eating berry.
Conception from eating mango.
Conception from eating orange.
Conception from eating lemon.
Conception from eating a peach.
Conception from eating plant.
Conception from eating root.
Conception from eating leaves.
Conception from eating mandrake.
Conception from eating watercress.
Conception from eating vegetable.
Conception from eating peppercorn.
Conception from eating spinach.
Conception from eating flower.
Conception from eating rose.
Conception from eating animal.
Conception from eating fish.
Conception from swallowing worm (in drink of water).
Conception from eating louse.
Conception from eating bird.
Conception from eating parts of human being.
Conception from eating woman's heart.
Conception from eating finger-bones.
Conception from eating food.
Conception after eating honey given by lover.
Pregnancy from eating an egg.
Conception from eating meat.
Conception from eating--miscellaneous.
Conception from swallowing a stone.
Conception from eating medicines.
Conception from eating mess of fairy pottage.
Conception from eating grain (seed).
Woman impregnated after accidentally partaking of crane's dung.
Conception from swallowing a pearl.
Conception from drinking.
Conception from drinking elixir from goat's horns.
Conception from drinking urine.
Child develops from man's urine.
Conception from drinking water.
Conception from drinking holy water.
Conception from drinking saint's tears.
Impregnation from licking spittle.
Conception from drinking sperm.
Conception from drinking dew.
Conception from wish.
Conception through another's wish.
Impregnation by magician's power.
Conception after reciprocal desire for each other.
Conception after anchorite blesses woman in love with him.
Impregnation through glance.
Impregnation through lustful glance.
Conception through dream.
Conception from extraordinary intercourse.
Conception from hand or foot.
Conception through mother's side.
Conception through ear.
Conception from divine impregnation.
Conception from sunlight.
Conception from moonlight.
Conception from rainbow.
Conception from rays of a dragon.
Conception from falling rain.
Conception from bathing.
Conception from wind.
Conception from falling star.
Impregnation by star.
Impregnation by a comet.
Conception because of prayer.
Magic impregnation by use of charm (amulet).
Impregnation by thunder (lightning).
Conception from casual contact with man.
Conception from having licked semen-stained loincloth.
Conception from other contacts.
Conception from contact with magic object.
Conception from plucking flower.
Conception from smelling flower.
Conception from embracing magic tree.
Conception from embracing holy image.
Impregnation by leaf of lettuce.
Conception by smell of cooked dragon heart.
Conception after smelling ground bonedust.
Conception from stepping on an animal.
Conception from fruit thrown against breast.
Conception from flowers hidden in breast.
Cow touched by arrow becomes pregnant.
Conception from putting on another's girdle.
Conception from touching another's garment.
Conception from putting ball into bosom.
Woman becomes pregnant after eagle sits on her head.
Impregnation by shadow of Bhimsen.
Conception after shadow of man has fallen on bathing girl.
Miraculous conception from God's bow.
Conception from hiss of cobra.
Conception from spittle.
Conception from blood.
Conception from fire.
Conception from heat of fire.
Conception from feathers falling on woman.
Conception from scarification.
Unusual conception in old age.
Miraculous conception--miscellaneous.
Hero enters womb of sleeping woman and is reborn.
Conception by a cry.
Conception from intercourse with demon.
Heifers covered by supernatural bull conceive miraculously.
Magic impregnation from faraway husband.
Supernatural birth of saints.
Birth from unusual part of person's body.
Birth from blood.
Birth from blood-clot.
Boy created by saint from blood-clot.
Birth from wound or abscess.
Birth from wound or abscess on body of father.
Child born of splinter in hand (foot).
Birth from tears.
Birth from person's head.
Birth from mouth.
Birth from man's thigh.
Birth from woman's thigh.
Birth from an arm.
Birth from an eye.
Birth from secretions of the body.
Birth from excrement.
Birth from spittle.
Birth from mucus from the nose.
Child born through nose.
Birth from contact of severed male genitals with ground.
Birth from semen thrown on ground.
Birth from lotus issuing from a god's navel.
Birth from nine mothers.
Birth from man's shoulder.
Birth through the ear.
Birth through the back.
Birth from knee.
Birth of human being from an egg.
Shepherdess born of red and blue egg.
Birth from plant.
Twig, born of a woman, is planted and becomes a girl.
Birth from a tree.
Birth from flower.
Birth from lotus.
Birth from fruit.
Birth from orange.
Birth from fungus.
Birth from gourd.
Birth from grass (grain).
Birth from wheat.
Birth from vegetable.
Birth from mineral.
Birth from rock.
Boy forged from iron.
Birth from ground.
Birth from water.
Birth from sea-foam.
Birth from hailstone.
Birth from virgin.
Birth obtained through magic or prayer.
Child born in answer to prayer.
Hateful or lovely child to be born first? Magic rites for obtaining a child.
Magic elixir to procure a child.
Charity rewarded by birth of child.
Miraculous birth--miscellaneous.
Vegetable comes to life at woman's prayer.
Thrown cane becomes child.
Boy born from fish's belly.
Fish when slit open gives up baby boy.
Child born from miscarried fetus.
Child born from placenta.
Monster child helps mother.
Abnormally born child has unusual powers.
Misshapen child from brother-sister incest.
Monstrous birth because mother sees horrible sight.
Blemished children born of monstrous parent.
Only half a son is born by queen who ate merely half of mango.
Poor woman gives birth to child who has no body (merely head or skull).
Child with extraordinary members (limbs).
Child born without limbs.
Child born as formless lump of flesh.
Child born with two heads.
Child born with animal head.
Child with dog's head.
Child with hawk's head.
Monstrous birth: child with donkey's head.
Child with cow's head.
Person born with cow's ears.
Child born with horns.
Boy born with one side flesh and one iron.
Child born beautiful on one side, hairy on other.
Child born half man, half fish.
Child born without mouth.
Child born with one ear.
Child born with caul (containing serpent).
Child born with claws as result of curse by dying peddler murdered by its parents.
Monstrous birth--nine faces, nine arms, nine feet.
Birth of one-eyed child.
Child born with one leg.
Child born hairy.
Child born with long hair.
Child born with long beard.
Child with all of its organs out of place.
Child born blood-red.
Child born bearing an object.
Girl born with red string around neck.
Child born with snake around neck.
Child born bearing lizard in each hand.
Child born holding worm (in each hand).
Child born carrying knife and calabash.
Child born carrying handful of hair.
Child born with complete armor.
Child born wearing helmet.
Child born with magic iron bow.
Child born with knife and shield.
Child born carrying a stone.
Child born wearing jewel.
Daughter born with a feathered parka.
Thumbling born as result of hasty wish of parents.
Woman gives birth to animal.
Woman transformed to animal bears animal.
Tiger, spirit, and man sons of one mother.
Woman bears dog.
Woman bears crane.
Woman bears monkey.
Woman bears tortoise (turtle).
Woman bears goat.
Woman gives birth to a snake.
Woman bears frog.
Woman gives birth to toad.
Woman bears three pigs.
Woman gives birth to a bird.
Supernaturally impregnated woman gives birth to dragon.
Woman gives birth to a plant.
Woman gives birth to a fruit.
Woman gives birth to pumpkin.
Queen gives birth to a gourd.
Woman gives birth to a demon.
Child born with viper in heart (body).
Child born in a jug (jar).
Child born in conch shell.
Child born in a furnace.
Child born in a bag.
Child born in pot.
White woman bears black child.
Birthmarks.
Child of three fathers born with three stripes.
Child formed of clot of gore has red birthmark.
Child born with figure of serpent on his body.
Tattoo on newly born baby's back telling who was his former incarnation.
Woman lays an egg.
Human son of animal parents.
Monstrous births--miscellaneous.
Queen delivered of a piece of flesh; abandoned and saved, it gradually separates into forms of boy and girl.
Woman gives birth to grinding-stone.
Unreasonable demands of pregnant women.
Prevention of childbirth.
Magic prevention of childbirth.
Mother sits on stone to prevent premature birth.
Abortion.
Abortion by vomiting up embryo.
Abortion by eating.
Hero an abortion thrown into the bushes.
Abortion by fasting.
Abortion caused by fear.
Abortion by long bathing.
Short pregnancy.
Short pregnancy in animals.
Woman conceives and bears same day.
Long pregnancy.
Long pregnancy: twelve months.
Long pregnancy: seven years.
Child speaks before birth.
Child speaks in mother's womb.
Child in mother's womb reveals crime.
Child in mother's womb reveals murder.
Child in mother's womb reveals adultery.
Child in mother's womb reveals unjust judgment.
Future suicide weeps in mother's womb.
Twins quarrel before birth in mother's womb.
Future poet chants spell in mother's womb.
Children in mothers' wombs praise God at birth of Christ.
Embryos in womb join melody and sing.
Child in mother's belly guides her.
Unborn child directs his mother on journey.
Woman talks to her child before it is conceived.
Child speaks from dead mother's womb.
Child in mother's womb visible from outside.
Prenatal influences.
Fetus exchanged from one woman to another.
Male embryo transformed in womb to female.
Pregnant man.
Child incubated in man's thigh.
Man transformed to female (human or animal) bears offspring.
Pregnancy--miscellaneous motifs.
Sheath and knife as analogy for mother and unborn child.
Girl's blood examined to see if she is pregnant.
Seven-year-old girl has child.
Seven-year-old boy begets child.
Mother of saint has healing spittle during pregnancy.
Saint performs miracles while yet unborn.
Worm swallowed at conception eats hand of babe before birth.
King demands that his pregnant queen be chained to him.
Signs of pregnancy.
Transparent body of pregnant woman.
Girl paints face because pregnant.
Girl betrays pregnancy by dropping milk on brother.
Jewess must entreat Virgin before she can bear her child.
Place and conditions of childbirth.
Birth of child in forest.
Child born of woman abandoned in pit.
Child born to an apparently dead mother in her grave.
Blind wives fall into a pool where they give birth to children.
Children born in dungeon.
Child born in tree.
Child born in stable.
Child born during snowstorm.
Noise of battle precipitates birth.
Child born on flagstone.
Woman bears twins at end of footrace (with king's horses).
Child born on beach.
Twins born in tent; mother abducted.
Boy is born in a wrapping of fine cloth.
Precautions at childbirth.
Avoidance of evil spirits at childbirth.
All locks in house to be shot during childbirth.
Knots to be untied at childbirth.
Knife (other sharp instrument) as childbirth precaution.
Accompaniments of childbirth.
Couvade.
Husband goes into seclusion at wife's pregnancy.
Couvade imposed on man during wife's menstruation.
Pains of woman in childbirth repeated in person of the man.
Calamities at birth of hero.
King leaves bell with his wife for her to ring so he will know when her child is born.
Parturition.
Childbirth assisted by magic.
Husband acts as midwife when no woman is available.
Birth of holy person painless.
Childbirth assisted by angel.
While saint's mother was giving birth to the child, she grasps a stout rod which roots and becomes a sturdy tree.
Childbirth assisted by sacred stone.
Birth through the mother's side.
Child removed from body of dead mother.
Child born of dead mother in grave.
Twins freed from dead mother's body as body rots.
Cesarean operation upon a woman at childbirth as a custom.
Piglings cut from bodies of sows and reared.
Extraordinarily long labor at childbirth.
Prolonged labor: woman has childbirth pains for 100 days but is not delivered.
After-birth (placenta) becomes a demon.
Hero is born by splitting mother's womb.
Child helps mother in severing his navel string.
Precocious infant.
Child born full (nearly) grown.
Child stronger than mother on day of birth.
Child speaks at birth.
Child two months old speaks.
Child speaks prematurely on first birthday.
Infant born blind immediately drowns self.
Infant saint rebukes mother's impiety.
Child born with all his teeth.
Child born with hairy mane.
Newborn child kisses dying mother.
Precocious hero leaves cradle to go to war.
Child stands (walks) at birth.
Child born circumcised.
Multiple births.
Many children at a birth.
Four children at a birth.
Six children at a birth.
Seven children at a birth.
King and queen have seven sons, all named Maine.
King has six (seven) sons, all named Lugaid.
Nine children at a birth.
Five children at a birth for four successive years.
Forty sons born in one day.
Extraordinary number of children in family.
King with fifty sons (daughters).
King with 60,000 sons.
Multiple birth as result of relations with several men.
Woman ravished by three brothers bears triplets.
Triplets killed by tribe at birth.
Extraordinary number of animals at birth.
Four calves to one cow at a birth.
Extraordinarily frequent childbirth.
Woman bears child every month.
Child born each day for seven days.
Birth of twins.
Birth of twins an indication of unfaithfulness in wife.
Twins born one with ear of other in mouth.
Immediately after birth of twins one puts the other in his mouth:
Last born twin conceived first.
Motifs associated with the placenta.
Spirits make child from placenta.
Childbirth--miscellaneous motifs.
Co-operative birth.
Boy cut in two: each half becomes a boy.
Birth trees.
Birth with veil brings luck.
New-born child reincarnation of recently deceased person.
Where children come from.
Children brought by the stork.
Newborn boy placed in the lap of bathing queen by vulture.
Children brought by midwife.
Children said to come from underworld.
Children said to come from a well.
Children said to come from cauliflower.
Children said to come from stones.
Simultaneous births.
Simultaneous birth of (domestic) animal and child.
Hero born in hour of Christ's Nativity.
Woman strives to delay birth until auspicious day.
Child with several mothers.
Barrenness or impotence induced by magic.
Magic remedies for barrenness or impotence.
Magic potion as remedy for impotence.
Milk of hornless, single-colored cow drunk by man to make wife fruitful.
Unlucky for a woman to look on the face of a childless person.
Milk suddenly appears in woman's dry breast.
Milk medicine fills woman's breasts with milk.
Sign hung out informing brothers whether mother has borne boy or girl.
Naming of children.
Angel names child.
Children named by numbers (1, 2, 3, etc.).
Ambitions of father transferred to child at moment of conception.
Infant bathed in milk.
Weapons and horses procured for boy at his birth.
Divine nurse.
Suckling of children.
Child nourished by sucking its own fingers.
Child nourished by sucking thumb of a god.
Child miraculously suckled by his father.
Witch (fairy) suckles child.
Children magically prevented from suckling.
Child miraculously suckled by saint.
Saint has two paps--a pap with milk and a pap with honey: with these he suckles two infants.
Saint feeds children by cutting off cow's teats and pouring milk into them.
Children miraculously suckled by angel.
Milk magically appears in woman's breast so as to nourish orphan.
Abandoned child saved by seagulls; milk furnished by doe; angel brings bell as drinking utensil.
One woman suckles many babies.
Dead mother's breasts furnish sufficient nourishment for her baby during two years.
Man suckled by dog (wolf): called Mac Con (Son of Dog).
Girl suckled by wolf has nail "like a wolf's nail." Saint suckled by wolf.
Child nourished by sucking the eyeballs of snake-mother (frog-mother) who left it.
Child born of slain mother cares for itself during infancy.
Diabolical child kills his wet-nurses.
Supernatural growth.
Precocious speech.
Women old from their birth.
Precocious wisdom.
Precocious boy supports his widowed mother and himself by use of his wits.
Precocious young child demands weapons.
Boy reared in ignorance of the world.
Future hero as child isolated from world kills increasingly larger game with superior weapons.
Hero learns his name at time of first adventure.
Orphan inquires about parents.
Illegitimate child of nun.
Mother of illegitimate child given as pledge for his crime.
Test of legitimacy of children: exposure to asps.
Child betrays his own illegitimacy.
Paramour leaves token with girl to give their son.
Sword left for posthumous son to kill father's murderer.
"Keep it if it is a girl; send it to me if it is a boy." "Kill it if it is a girl."
Father orders the mother to send the expected illegitimate boy to him when he can perform certain feats.
Hero leaves bedmate keys to treasure chamber for the son she is supposed to bear.
Illegitimate child taunted by playmates.
Child cries because his father is unknown.
Illegal to care for illegitimate child.
Adoption by suckling.
Adopted child reproaches his foster mother and is returned to his real mother.
Rich but stingy couple adopt young man as their son: everybody is happy.
Adopted child deserted when own child is born to couple.
Real mother preferred to foster mothers.
Children prefer foster mother.
Childless couple adopt animal as substitute for child.
Childless woman adopts a serpent (transformed man).
Substitute for a child.
Adopted child identical with real child reared with him.
Each likes his own children best.
Animals ridicule foolish pride of owl in the beauty of his son's really hideous feet.
Hero a posthumous son.
Devil substitutes himself for new-born child.
Twins.
Twin adventurers.
Hostile twins.
Twins who look exactly alike.
Twins: as twins are reared one born earlier becomes continually weaker, the other stronger.
Quadruplet heroes.
Triplets (as heroes).
Children sleep in village dormitory.
Small trespasses punished; large crimes condoned.
Ass punished for stealing mouthful of grass; lion and wolf forgiven for eating sheep.
Animals confess sins to one another: fox and wolf forgive each other; punish ass.
Animals confess sins to lion holding court.
Penitent in confession worries about little sins and belittles the big ones.
He who steals much called king; he who steals little called robber.
Wolf punished for theft; kings honored.
Largest burdens laid on smallest asses: best offices to most ignorant men.
Unworthy rewarded instead of the worthy.
Fool laughs at the absurdities he sees about him.
Dwarf king (fairy) laughs at the absurdities he sees about him.
Philosopher laughs at the vanities and sins of the world.
The fathers have eaten sour grapes and the children's teeth are set on edge.
Justice depends on the point of view.
Hen complains that man eats her, but she eats ant.
A gift of property silences criticism.
Man complains of injustice of gods' wrecking ship because of one man's sin.
Wolf objects to lion stealing sheep from him although he has himself stolen it.
Judge reduces penalty when accused is his own son.
Theft to avoid starvation forgiven.
Swallow killed in court house by snake laments injustice in house of justice.
Wolf unjustly accuses lamb and eats him.
Cat unjustly accuses cock and eats him.
Crow exercises rights of strong over dove who cannot defend self.
Smallness of offense no excuse when hunter prepares to kill lark.
Cock killed by his captors in spite of his plea of usefulness to man.
Nobleman murders one of the people.
Nobleman who kills one of the people is brought to justice only after long delay.
Rich man (king) seizes poor widow's (nun's) cow.
King seizes old woman's cow.
King seizes poor man's lamb.
Nobles ruin peasant's (widow's) crops with impunity.
Lion cub killed by bull gives lioness no right to complain.
Wolf as commander orders all booty divided, but keeps his own.
Ruler exiles subject for trivial remark.
Ruler forces bishop to ordain ignorant priest.
Praise what your master likes and scorn what he dislikes.
Dividing after God's fashion: little to poor, much to rich.
Priest has no friends until he becomes bishop: then they flock to him.
Wealth is relative: beggar with horse, wife, or dog considered rich by poorer beggar.
Grass serves as pleasant couch for poor.
Every man has his price.
Every woman has her price.
Bid raised for queen's favors until she hesitates.
Jester takes cow and tells king people have plenty of milk, for "he who is warm thinks everyone else is."
Optimist becomes pessimist when his money is stolen.
Man so constantly enriched by God that he cannot give all his goods to the poor.
Great possessions bring great risks.
Dove's pride in her large brood linked with fear for their loss.
King in exile neglected, but courted when he regains throne.
Price of object depends on where it is on sale.
Many books do not make a scholar.
Many books do not make a scholar: youth tricks mother by carrying many books.
Beard on she-goats do not make a male.
Big voice: little creature.
Mountain in labor brings forth a mouse.
The skeleton in the closet.
Apparently happy woman discloses the skeleton of her slain paramour.
Hypocrite is acclaimed as saint after his death.
Man rejects bride because she seems immature.
Other ways in which appearances deceive.
Revelations of a satyr.
At a funeral of a child a satyr reveals that the real father (officiating priest) sings while the cuckold weeps.
At a hanging the witnesses are bigger thieves than the culprit.
Peasant wishes to exchange places with monks.
Handsome exterior does not indicate beautiful soul.
An ugly face does not mean an ugly soul.
Stories to show that one's name does not alter his condition.
Like parent, like child.
Crab walks backward: learned from his parents.
Hind, like his mother, flees before the hounds.
Farmer's son and noble's reared in country.
Alleged son of king proved to be bastard when he displays habits of his true father.
Father, like son, acts foolishly at king's court.
Butcher's son becomes cruel and atrocious ruler.
Dungbeetle prefers his dunghill to all other smells.
Beetles treated with as much honor as oxen will not learn to act as oxen.
Hog goes to bath but wallows in the mud.
Scorpion, in spite of himself, stings the turtle carrying him across the stream.
Wolf loses interest in the sermon when he sees a flock of sheep.
Heron (crane) loses interest in heaven if there are no snails.
Dog allowed to warm self in house begins to bark.
Fawn, in spite of his fine horns, runs from the dog.
Tiger son of human mother scratches her and licks her blood.
Tiger father of human child licks its blood.
Nature will show itself--miscellaneous.
Thieving nature of the fox will show itself.
Prostitute will deceive new lover as always.
Washerman as minister thinks of washing and fails the king.
Newly rich cannot resist call for distribution of food to beggars.
Familiarity takes away fear.
Fox finally converses with lion whom he had feared at first.
Men at first frightened at camel take him into their service.
Man soon learns to stand the smells of the tannery.
Farmer prefers stable smells to flowers.
Knight doesn't want to go to heaven if there are no hunting dogs there.
Longing for accustomed food and living.
At feast cat chooses rat meat; other animals cannot eat it.
Shepherd in king's palace sickens for country air.
Former slave sickens for accustomed food.
Peasant girl married to king longs for peasant ways of eating.
Peasants fed white bread demand the rye bread to which they are accustomed.
Fisher and hunter exchange catches for variety: soon return to original food.
Dissatisfied workmen exchange work: still more dissatisfied.
Beasts and fishes exchange places: fatal to both.
Mill horse when taken to war keeps going in a circle, as he has learned in the mill.
Habit of dishonesty (thievery) cannot be broken.
Dishonest silversmith restless until silver ornament is mixed with alloy.
Thieves cannot quit plundering.
Power of habit--miscellaneous.
Habitual food and drink continued even when it is harmful.
Conservatism defies reason.
Conservative but absurd way of slaughtering hog stubbornly kept.
Enmity between fisherman and dweller on the river.
Ox likes loving strokes of man; flea fears them.
Collier and fuller cannot live together: one makes things clean, the other soils them.
Nightingale cannot lodge with birds whose nest is made of manure.
Royalty unable to endure coarse entertainment.
Coarse food, etc., sends adulterous king back to his wife.
Animals try unsuccessfully to exchange food.
Good weather for one is foul for another.
Bird wants sunshine, worm clouds.
What is one man's food is another man's poison--miscellaneous.
Lions despise what asses admire (braying).
Ass indifferent to enemy's approach: he could be no more miserable than now.
Eagle killed with arrow made with his own feather.
Tree cut down with axe for which it has furnished a handle.
Blind man crosses a narrow bridge which his guide is afraid to attempt.
Two blind men succeed in fooling each other about their blindness.
Futile attempt to explain to a blind man meaning of "white".
Man unable to persuade wife to confess misdeed to priest succeeds when he makes her drunk.
No great knights now because no great kings.
To have good servants a lord must be good.
Monk under pressure from abbot forgives the crucifix which has fallen and hurt him.
Monk leaves monastery when he sees a devil there tempting brethren.
Hermit having rebuked youth falls himself when exposed to the same sin.
Monk rebukes brethren who succumb to temptation.
No place secret enough for sin.
Lying is incurable.
Liar cannot be healed even when taking bath in the Ganges.
False repentance of the sick.
False repentance of the sick, rich man.
King grows lean from fear of death.
Hares fearing death outrun pursuing dogs.
The hare's last will.
Courage conquers all and impossible is made possible.
The bad custom in the world: the young die as well as the old.
Time seems short to those who play, long for those who wait.
Suffering healed by time.
Cat ceases catching rats as soon as he is given a home in a monastery.
Objects of worship.
Worship of particular gods and goddesses.
Worship of one god.
Worship of spirits.
Worship of fairies.
Worship of devil.
Worship of "disar".
Worship of angels.
Worship of ancestors.
Worship of heavenly bodies.
Worship of the sky.
Worship of the sun.
Worship of moon.
Worship of stars.
Worship of manifestations in nature.
Worship of clouds.
Worship of thunder.
Worship of wind.
Worship of storm.
Worship of dawn.
Worship of light.
Worship of rainbow.
Worship of frost.
Worship of elements of nature.
Worship of earth.
Worship of mountains and hills.
Worship of water.
Worship of water-goddess.
Sacred rivers and lakes.
Worship of sea.
Worship of fire.
Sacred fire.
(Sacrificial) fire from which all others must be lighted.
Worship of minerals and metals.
Sacred stones.
Sacred shells.
Worship of trees and plants.
Sacred tree.
Sacred oak.
Sacred ash.
Sacred yew.
Sacred bo-tree.
Worship of animals.
Cow worship.
Bull worship.
Horse worship.
Dog worship.
Swine worship.
Wolf worship.
Serpent worship.
Bird worship.
Dragon worship.
Lion worship.
Ass worship.
Fish worship.
Worship of tools and implements.
Plow worship.
Worship of weapons.
Worship of hammer (axe).
Worship of fetish.
Man worships a cake which from time to time he eats.
Cult of heads.
Sacred feather.
Worship of idols.
Worship of golden calf.
Worship of stone idols.
Worship of wooden idol.
Value of religious exercises.
Religious exercises weighed in balance.
Negligence in religious exercise.
Virgin Mary reproves a monk who sleeps at altar.
Negligent priests buried under bags filled with words omitted from service.
Devils cause monk to perspire and stay away from church service.
Goddess prevents suicide of man despairing of ability to make sacrifice.
God dislikes offerings beyond one's ability.
Power to which sacrifice is made.
Sacrifice to tree.
Sacrifice to sea.
Sacrifice to river.
Sacrifice to stone.
Sacrifices to Confucius.
Sacrifice to wind.
Sacrifice to the dead.
Human sacrifice in connection with funeral.
Animal sacrifice in connection with funeral.
Sacrifice to animal.
Sacrifice to serpent.
Sacrifice to saint.
Sacrifice to deity.
Sacrifice to unknown god.
Sacrifice to idols.
Nature of sacrifice.
Blood as sacrifice.
Jewels as sacrifice to sea.
Skulls as sacrifice to a god.
Animals as sacrifice.
Sacrifice of animals at the edification of a temple.
Dog as sacrifice.
Cat as sacrifice.
Pig as sacrifice.
Hog as sacrifice.
Ox (bull) as sacrifice.
Cow as sacrifice.
Heifer as sacrifice.
Calf as sacrifice.
Goat as sacrifice.
Sheep (ram) as sacrifice.
Hare as sacrifice.
Ass as sacrifice.
Horse as sacrifice.
Fish as sacrifice.
Bird as sacrifice.
Gold as sacrifice to false wooden god.
Thrall as sacrifice.
Eyes (human or animal) as sacrifice.
Flowers as sacrifice.
Libations.
Incense as sacrifice.
Sacrifice made when treasure is found.
Sacrifice must be without blemish.
Sacrifice: olive branch laid on altar of Mercy.
Sacrifice at religious festivals.
Sacrifices at Passover.
Purpose of sacrifice.
Sacrifice to deity in order to obtain favors.
Sacrifice for a good year, crops.
Sacrifice after committing a sin.
Sacrifice to get help in danger.
Sacrifice for good weather.
Sacrifice to get snow and good conditions for skiing.
Sacrifice to get knowledge.
Sacrifice to find out where abducted daughter is.
Sacrifice in order that king may live 300 years.
Sacrifice to deity for return of abducted persons.
Sacrifice at edification of temple.
Sacrifice by women at childbirth.
Ceremony of sacrifice.
Religious sacrifices--miscellaneous.
Rising smoke as sign of acceptance of sacrifice.
Protection of sinners by confession.
A man without a confessor is a body without a head.
Confessor as "soul-friend".
Confession brings forgiveness of sin.
Sincere confession miraculously obliterated as sign of forgiveness.
Woman confesses murder: unharmed by execution fire.
Confession of monk who intended to rob monastery brings forgiveness.
Prior pardons sinning friar who has confessed.
Sinner confesses before sinning and thus is pardoned.
Sinner's tearmarks on written confession cause bishop to pardon his sins.
Condemnation because of death without confession.
Miracle to permit confession.
Unshriven man restored to life in order to confess.
Dumb man recovers speech in order to confess.
Miraculous manifestation at confession.
Confession of sins of a pilgrim calms a great storm at sea.
Easy confession not effective.
Man returns from dead to protest against priest who has been too easy with him at confession.
Confession without giving up sin punished.
Penance magically concluded by confession.
Confession--miscellaneous motifs.
Search for confessor.
Monks shrive selves clean under threat of complete exposure of their sins by brother possessed of fiend.
Miracle attests fact that man does not need to confess.
Sodomist makes sport of confession.
Unnecessary for husband to confess as his wife has already done it for him.
Penitent brings manuscript of sins to confession.
List of sins: schedule is returned miraculously cleansed of all his sins.
Confessor and penitent exchange confidences.
The devil goes to confession.
Extortionate confessor demands golden statue.
The eaten god.
Flesh of Artemis eaten as quail or bear.
Unconsecrated host.
Host taken away from sinful priest.
Unconsecrated host ineffective.
Unconsecrated host refused.
Altar casts away host with louse baked in it.
Devil eats unblessed bread.
Host miraculously given when it is refused a man by the priest.
Incredulity as to sacredness of host punished.
Incredulity as to sacredness of host confounded by miraculous appearance.
Incredulity of true transformation of host banished by actual appearance of Jesus's body and blood.
Miraculous working of the host.
Host cures disease.
Princess sick because toad has swallowed her consecrated wafer.
Man who has received sacrament overcomes enemy, a blasphemer.
Clothes of knight who kneels in mud before host as it passes miraculously kept clean.
The stolen sacrament.
Jews bribe woman to steal host for them: miraculous manifestations.
Horse kneels before stolen sacrament.
Sacred image miraculously appears on stolen sacrament.
Stolen sacred hosts put into coffin.
Sacrament--miscellaneous motifs.
Man considering self unworthy to receive host given it by God himself.
Wicked woman unable to endure presence of host at mass.
Sacrament effective even from unworthy priest.
Vision of sacrament in form of young child.
Sacred image appears on host.
Host given as pledge to keep one's word.
Voice from grave asks that it be opened.
Sick men die and go to hell because they hesitate to take sacrament.
Woman who eats before communion cannot swallow the wafer.
Masses work miracles.
Imprisoned miner kept alive by masses performed by his wife.
Hearing masses causes triumph in tournament.
Masses release souls from hell (purgatory).
Holy man has his own mass.
Faithful attendance at mass outweighs evil deeds.
Mass said for dead; they arise and say "Amen".
Pebble put in box each time mass is heard.
The canonical hours.
Mass--miscellaneous motifs.
Werwolves hold mass.
Angel holds mass in church on the day that the king absents himself for sake of hunting trip.
Learning to pray.
Man who does not know how to pray so holy that he walks on water.
Worldly-minded learn to pray by thinking of their usual business.
Woman shows that the Lord's Prayer is the best.
Woman taught that it is better to pray before Christ's image than before a saint's.
"Beatus" best prayer for saving condemned souls.
Miraculous power of prayer.
Man saved from lechery through prayer.
Continuous prayer sustains man through frightful vigil.
Prayer before battle brings victory.
Objects supplied through prayer.
Prayer restores shattered vessel.
Mariners saved from maelstrom through prayer.
Prayer at saint's flagstone averts trouble.
Prayer brings death to enemy.
Prayer for protection on journey to land of dead.
Prayers of devout woman free husband from death and imprisonment.
Prayer of sinner changes his color from black into white.
The clever brothers work, the foolish brother only prays; finally he acquires all the property.
Saint's Paternoster outweighs ox.
Reciting martyrology will prevent decomposition of body of one who recites it.
Prayer said by saint into his right hand restores displaced eye of opponent.
Prayers of family comfort prisoner.
Prayer unfastens boy's fetters.
Man worships devil's image in order to secure advancement.
Purpose of prayer.
Prayer for good harvest.
Prayer for shower of gold.
Prayer on special occasions.
Prayer as ceremony.
Prayers at sunrise and sunset.
Prayer with face toward east.
Repeated circumambulations with prayer.
Handwashing before prayer.
Prayer shawl.
Prayers answered--miscellaneous.
Skill in theft granted as answer to prayer.
Stones sold at funeral wakes.
Funeral rites by druids.
Various ways of disposing of dead.
Dead placed on boat.
Dead burned on pyre.
Coffin buried upright.
Hero buried in armor, standing with face toward land of enemies.
Person buried in standing position with friends about him.
Man buried upright beneath kitchen stairway in order that he may watch his family.
Head buried one place, body another.
Corpse buried face down.
Dismemberment before burial.
King buried in his war car.
Christian buried in stone coffin.
Christian buried in wooden coffin.
Burial in grave-mound.
Chiefs buried in hidden caves.
Lion buried in stone cave with gold letters.
Corpses exposed in tree.
Aversion to burial in "strange city".
Restrictions on burial.
Funeral rites forbidden.
Only usurers to carry body of usurer to grave.
Bones of dismembered person assembled and buried.
Money tied on corpse thrown overboard from ship in order to secure burial.
Shipwrecked each get a piece of the chief's gold ring in order to have gold with them in death.
Commemoration of death.
Calves kept separate from cows in commemoration of hero's death.
Drinking festival in memory of the dead.
Wedding and funeral festival on same time.
Professional mourning.
Funeral song sung over dead.
Funeral games.
Funeral sermon.
Witty funeral sermon.
Accompaniments of burial.
Ornaments (arms, chariots) buried with hero.
Shoes buried with the dead.
Treasure buried with the dead.
King buried with immense treasure in the ground of an artificially dried river
Men buried with dead chief.
Captain buried with his crew.
Animals buried with the dead.
Preparations for burial.
Dead washed (in river).
Dead washed and hair combed.
Dying hero wants to be buried in the clothes of his brother who killed him.
Dead is undressed.
Dead not to be buried naked.
Dead rubbed with red paint.
Funeral rites-miscellaneous.
All dead are buried after battle.
Hero buried as unknown merchant in foreign country.
The first day of summer.
Festival of Beltane (== May Day).
Whitsuntide.
Midsummer.
Feast of Saint John the Baptist.
Harvest-festival.
Festival of Samhain (Hallowe'en, Tara [Temair]).
Festival of Imbolg (Brigit, Candlemas).
Feast of the new moon.
Festival of Cenn (Crom) Cruaich.
Sabbath.
Jewish automaton will not work on Saturday.
Manna does not descend on Sabbath.
Misfortune ascribed to breaking Sabbath.
Various events, from creation to Resurrection, that occurred on Sabbath.
Christmas.
Little Christmas.
Fasts.
Christ in the desert overcomes devil by fasting.
Fast to prevent pestilence.
Fast improves health.
Saint causes two youths to be fed with the best food, says one is doomed to go to hell, the other will practice austerity in his old age.
Fasting to secure a prosperous journey.
Fasting on "Golden Fridays" as charm against certain misfortunes.
Lent.
Christ's forty-days' fast called "His Lent".
Saint remains silent during Lent by holding stone in mouth.
Holy man eats pork and beef in Lent because pig is raised on milk, ox on grass; but refuses to eat cake because it contains weevils (live
meat).
Easter.
Passover.
Baptism.
Girl having been stolen by mountain-folk must be baptized anew.
Tails fall off mountain spirits when they are baptized.
Metamorphosis brought about by baptism.
Baptism of infants.
Sea bath as purificatory rite.
Circumcision.
Hymns.
Excommunication.
Lightning strikes excommunicated person who enters church.
Priest shows power of excommunication over host.
Pirate excommunicated, goes on pilgrimage as penance.
Religious pilgrimages.
Sign of the Cross.
Sign of cross protects from injury.
Sign of cross prevents child from being stolen from cradle.
Sign of cross prevents garment from burning.
Man dies because he has killed a man with the sign of the cross on his forehead.
Martyr with sign of cross on his heart.
Punishment for profane use of the cross.
Miraculous manifestations to scoffers of the cross.
Praying with arms extended so as to form a cross.
Loaf bursts in oven because sign of cross has not been made over it.
The seven significances of the sign of the cross.
Christening.
Ceremony of the proclamation of a Buddha.
Accidental calling on god's name held to outweigh a life of wickedness.
"Our Lady's Tumbler." Religious dancing.
Ritual bathing.
Taking bath in a sacred river (Ganges).
Study of Tora as religious service.
Churches.
Visit to certain church protects from drowning on pilgrimage.
Stones for building church (chapel) miraculously supplied.
Place where a church must be built miraculously indicated.
Birds indicate the site where a church is to be built by making a model of the structure on the spot.
Divine person points out site for church.
Temples.
Ark of the temple.
Spirit huts.
Mosques.
Synagogues.
Shrines.
Miracles at shrine.
Vow to visit shrine.
Cripples at shrine frightened and run away without crutches.
Robbers promise to make offerings to the shrine of a hermit if successful.
Sacred groves.
Sacred groves of druids.
Church bells.
Church bell sunk in river (sea).
Sunken bell travels on sea bottom.
Raising sunken church bell.
Sunken church bell cannot be raised.
Church bell cannot be raised because silence is broken.
Church bell cannot be raised because person blasphemes.
Girl sold for new church bell.
Devil buys church bell and demoralizes congregation.
What church bells say.
Altars.
Pulpits.
Monasteries.
Hell as a monastery--the devil, abbot; sinners, monks.
Monastery on otherworld island.
Subaqueous monastery.
Submarine oratory.
Images and druids.
Miraculous image of Christ impressed on napkin.
Image bars way of nun trying to escape convent to join lover.
Image of Jesus descends from cross and wounds nun leaving convent.
Image blamed by suppliant for misfortunes.
God under compulsion: suppliant threatens to mutilate (crush) holy image if his wish is not fulfilled.
Preacher criticizes the likeness of Christ exhibited in his church.
Saint hangs cowl in thornbrake as symbol of Christ on the Cross.
Casting of image of Buddha delayed until a maniac's mite is thrown into the furnace.
Image of saint speaks.
Image of deity in wood (stone).
Motions of various kinds attributed to images.
An apple is offered to a statue of the Virgin and her child.
Portraits exude oil.
Religious robes (vestments).
Sight of holy fringe on garment restrains a man from fornication and reforms the harlot.
White robes of druids.
Holy water.
Holy water prevents a man from committing incest with his daughter.
Holy water disperses demons.
Holy water removes mark placed on man's face by the devil.
Drinking holy water facilitates cursing.
Holy candles.
Sacred wells.
Tree beside holy well.
Oracles and auguries from holy well.
Offerings to holy wells.
Fish in water from certain well: water refuses to boil till fish are returned to well.
Ducks in pool in church: water in which they are placed refuses to boil till ducks are restored to pool.
Altar cloths.
Poverty-stricken couple wrap newly-born child in altar-coverings.
Bible.
Copy of gospels buried with saint.
House of woman who launders clothes for church spared in great fire.
Angel reveals (buried) relics to saint.
Saint's relics miraculously recovered.
A cow licks the stone under which the secreted body of saint is buried.
Testing the authenticity of relics: bones are cast into fire; with great noise they jump away from the flames.
Possession of relic brings prosperity, its loss sickness.
Devout possessor of false relics miraculously receives authentic ones.
Sham relics perform miracles if faith is great.
Saint's bones for lack of worship remove themselves from church.
Saint's bones miraculously removed from reliquary broken in pillage.
Relics (images) carried away return to their original church.
Belief in miraculous powers of sacred relics.
Sacred relics carried in battle to aid victory.
The relics of saint protect horses from the attack of wild beasts.
Sacred writings.
Captive released because of ability to recite beginning of Genesis.
Flame illuminates cradle of sacred person.
God.
Sacred spirits.
Royal family as sacred.
Third son of king possesses sacred power.
Christ.
Christ born from crown of Virgin's head.
Christ conceived on same day He was crucified.
Seventeen marvels at the birth of Christ.
Christ as prophet.
Christ called "druid".
The Nativity of Christ.
Air fragrant at Nativity.
Star shines through day of Nativity.
Hairy star appears before Nativity.
Shining cloud marks place of Nativity.
Vast intolerable light on night of Christ's Nativity.
Virgin suffers no birth pangs at Christ's Nativity.
Elements silent and motionless at Nativity.
A "crown of thorns" among gifts given by the shepherds to Joseph, husband of Virgin Mary.
Three (seven) druids come to adore infant Jesus.
The Infant Jesus.
Christ in form of an infant nursed by saint.
Christ in form of an infant fondled by nuns.
Christ as infant in mother's arms causes bare hillside to become field of wheat as protection.
Christ on earth.
Fiery pillar as sign of Christ's visit.
Christ disguised as leper.
Christ disguised as beggar.
Jesus had "dark hair and a long red beard".
Christ leaves bachall after visit.
The Crucifixion.
Angel warns of Christ's danger.
Smith's wife made nails for the Cross because her husband believed Christ to be a true prophet.
Earth trembles at Crucifixion.
Moon bloody at Crucifixion.
Sun darkened at Crucifixion.
Finding of the Cross.
Construction of the Cross.
Cross of Christ made of four kinds of wood.
The five wounds of Christ.
Blood and wine issue from wound in side of crucified Savior.
Dialogue between Christ and the Virgin Mary.
Christ's descent to hell.
The harrowing of hell.
Dialogue (debate) between Christ and Satan (at the harrowing of hell).
The three bolts left on hell by Christ.
Christ's resurrection (on March 27).
Christ's ascent to Heaven (on May 5).
Letter (message) of Christ.
Christ sends message to voyaging clerics.
Buddha.
Sacred books received from Buddha in person.
Precepts heard from Buddha in person.
Miraculous healing by saints.
Relics of saint cure disease.
Oil flowing from relics has curative powers.
The wine (water) occasionally used to bathe relics assumes healing powers.
Shrine of saint carried around to suppress pestilence.
Saint miraculously healed.
Crippled saint miraculously receives horse and chariot.
Miraculous healing power of saint as child.
Saint cures palsy.
Saint restores dumb man's speech.
Saint cures leprosy.
Leper cured by the kiss of a saint.
Saint subdues madman.
Saint cures frenzied animal.
Saint's blessing sufficient to control a mad dog.
Saint purifies monk with sign of the cross.
Saint sustains man on gallows.
Woman relieved of incurable malady by kissing letter from saint.
Wounds cured by saint leave no scars.
Cut off parts of body attached again by saint.
Men with enormous and unnatural appetite cured by saint.
Saint cures dumb person.
Saint cures blindness.
Miraculous manifestation acclaims saint.
Birth of saint predicted by visions of miracles.
Pillar of fire rises over woman pregnant with future saint.
Saint identified by pillar of fire above her head.
Dazzling heavenly light by day and night marks place of saint's birth.
Angels appear above place where saint is born.
Marvelous light accompanying saint.
Supernaturally bright light marks sleeping infant saint.
"Fair Drop" from.
Radiance fills church when saint dies.
Hand of saint made bright by Lord's touch.
Column of light descends from heaven upon chosen man.
Lights show where the body of saint is buried.
Brake in which saint loses tooth bursts into flame.
Choral singing accompanies saint.
House of saint filled with fragrance.
Aromatic smell of a saint's body.
Oil bursts from ground as saint is made bishop.
Bell sounds at approach of saint.
Church bells ring without aid of human hands at death of holy person.
Dead holy man stretches hand from tomb to honor saint.
Holy man passes through fire for his faith.
Earthquake accompanies entrance of holy man into palace of heathen emperor.
Saint falling into an abyss found perched in the branches of a tree which projected from the cliff.
Flowers fall from saint's mouth while he speaks.
Holy man restores a garden to bloom.
Sun sends shaft of heat to cook meat given persecuted saint.
Roses lose thorns when saint walks on them.
Saint changes maggots in the sores of a nun into precious stones.
Robbers who enter saint's garden to steal are caused to spade it up for him.
Saints have miraculous knowledge.
Saint gives advice.
Saint warns against poisoned well.
Saint can perceive the thoughts of another man and reveal hidden sins.
Saint helps with learning.
Truant boy learns long lesson while asleep with head in saint's lap.
Saints blessed with ability to discourse in the native idioms of the people whom they visit.
Saint understands language of wren, fly, cat.
Saint as prognosticator.
Saint can foretell the weather.
Miraculous replacement of objects (animals) for saint.
Objects used as firewood for saint miraculously replaced.
Food (animals) eaten by saint miraculously replaced.
Animals stolen from saint miraculously replaced.
Performing fox accidentally killed miraculously replaced for saint.
Supply of lime for building church miraculously renewed for saint.
Saints in several places at once.
Saints as hermits.
Saints have divine visitors.
God gives staff of Jesus to saint.
Immunities of saints (holy men).
Saint immune to poisoning.
Saint drinks poison without being injured.
Anchorite immune to magician's powers.
Saints--miscellaneous.
Saint commands return from dead with supernatural information.
Sanctity of saints.
Saintly babe repeatedly found with arms extended in form of cross.
Saintly babe disgorges unclean food.
Saint will drink only milk of cow milked by faithful woman.
Saint as baby refuses to take mother's breast on Wednesdays and Fridays.
Baptism of a wonder child is accompanied by a variety of phenomena.
Place of saint's martyrdom perpetually green.
Martyrs emit milk instead of blood from their wounds.
Saint sheds tears of blood.
Flowers grow on graves from the mouths or hearts of holy persons.
Saint's body remains unspoiled in the earth for a long time.
Tombs of saints distill oil.
Stones answer "Amen" after saint's preaching.
Miracle saves saint from unjust censure.
Saint causes gluttonous reptile to leap from saint's body into bishop's throat and then return as proof of bishop's injustice.
Extraordinary longevity of saints.
Seven Irish saints who never died.
Saint lives for 300 (100?) years without eating food or uttering evil.
Saint promises to return from heaven.
Saint banishes snakes.
Saint overcomes (destroys) monsters (dragons).
Saint banishes demons.
Saint confines monster (dragon) in lake.
Saint in conflict with druid.
Saint limits powers of satirist (druid).
Ale poisoned by druid miraculously purified by saint.
Druid raised in air, cast down, and brains scattered on stone by power of saint.
Druid by spells seeks to drive saint from island.
Invaders miraculously defeated by saints.
Saint drives away an army by bringing upon it a dense and smoky cloud.
Saints create magic concealing mist.
Unusual fuel used by saints: burning stone, snow and icicles, marble pillar, and green timber.
Broken objects restored to their original forms by saint.
Burned clothes restored to their previous form.
Holy man restores cut-off hands and feet.
Saint causes grey hair to grow in black.
Saint with tongue of fire (literally).
Sinful beauty is converted and spends the end of her life doing penance (Mary Magdalene, Mary of Egypt, and Thais).
Ground elevates itself to give protection or comfort to saint.
Saint in anger shows strength: wall broken by his kick.
Saint disguised as poor man saves almsgiving king from punishment in hell.
Lake of milk made through merit of saint.
Saint's blessing causes a river to be best place for fishing.
Dispute between two saints settled by angel.
Objects mourn death of saint (holy man).
Downfall of ascetic (saint).
After birth of son holy person loses miraculous power.
House and family appear overnight to afford hospitality to benighted priests.
Severed head of saint speaks so that searchers can find it.
Stone turns red when saint's picture is removed.
Saint turns snakes to stones.
Conversation of animals reveals to man how to become saint.
Man beholds angels.
Angels powerful.
Angel and mortal struggle.
Appearance of angel.
Angel in bird shape.
Shooting star as angel.
Angel with four wings.
Angel is form of cleric.
Angel appears to woman to warn her not to force girl into marriage.
Angel in the form of an old man.
Angel as helper.
Angel as helper in battle.
Angels appear and help boy prince slay treacherous uncle.
Angel carries mortal.
Angel carries boat to water.
Angel transports saint's staff.
Angels supply food to mortal.
Angel shows saint where to dig for water.
Angel looses man's fetters.
Angel as guide.
Angel guides chariot.
Angel reveals location of lost (buried) object.
Gifts from angels.
Angel brings cross as gift to saint.
Angel helps Peter to escape from prison.
Angel cleans hearth.
Angels build church.
Angel of death.
Angel of death spares mother who is suckling children.
Songs of the angels.
Angels sing in honor of saint.
Angels sing to welcome saint.
Angels sing over saint's body.
Angel choir responds when saint receives orders.
Angels sing on night of Christ's Nativity.
Mortal visited by angel.
Mortals visited by angel in vision.
Angel invoked by fasting.
Angel announces birth of Christ to shepherds.
Angel comforts repentant sinner.
Angel bars abbot from his cell because abbot has cast out a sinning monk.
Fallen angels.
Fallen angels become fairies (dwarfs, trolls).
Angel bars the way to Baalam's ass.
Guardian angel.
Angels hover over mortal (saint).
Angels melt snow around saintly babe.
Service of angels marks saint's destination.
Air above grave of converted druid full of angels.
Angels honor mortal.
Angels attend saint's funeral.
Angel directs saint's burial.
Angels hold service over (saint's) tomb.
Angels shed light upon saint's tomb.
Angels run races before saint.
Angel baptizes saint.
Angel names child.
Angels set heavenly veil upon head of pious woman.
Holy place (object) glorified by angel's presence.
Train of angels rises from graveyard.
Angel abides in church.
Angels attend church service.
Angel passes daily over blessed stone.
Angel answers mortal's prayer.
Angels appear above grave of fallen girl through virtue of prayers said by her lover (young monk).
Angel beseeches at unholy grave of redeemed sinner until body is moved to sanctified ground.
Angel punishes mortal.
Angel scourges mortal for disobedience to God.
Angel counsels mortal.
Angel leaves letter (book) with instructions for saint.
Angel dictates (gives) book.
Angel tells saint where to build his church.
Angel as saint's teacher.
Angel informs saint of coming of guests.
Daily life of angels.
Angels and God.
Angels--miscellaneous motifs.
Angel makes proclamation.
Language of angels.
Hebrew the language of the angels.
Irish saint as "Mary of the Gael".
Virgin Mary has golden hair.
Virgin Mary prevents (retards) death so as to save sinner's soul.
Virgin Mary brings man back to life after he has seen hell's torments.
Virgin Mary defends innocent accused.
Virgin Mary returns borrowed money and reveals cheat.
Virgin Mary saves criminal from fire at stake.
Faithfulness to Virgin Mary, even if not to Christ, rewarded.
Efficacy of saying "Aves".
Saying of "Aves" obliterates sin.
Virgin Mary supports robber on gallows because he once said "Ave Maria".
Ship in storm saved because of sailors' "Ave Maria".
"Ave" on the tongue.
Blasphemer paralyzed in all members except tongue which had once said "Ave Maria".
Devil exorcised by "Ave".
Nun forgets to hail Mary and goes into the world to sin.
Joseph and Mary threaten to leave heaven when the man who has always prayed to them is refused admittance.
Murdered boy still sings "Ave" after his death.
Criminal who said "Ave" beheaded.
Virgin Mary will not let devil (authorities) take robber noble who daily says "Ave".
Virgin forbids devil to take robber as long as he continues to say two "Aves" daily.
Virgin Mary has dissolute monk buried in consecrated ground: his only mass is that of the Virgin.
Devotee of Virgin not buried in consecrated ground has lily issue from mouth so that his grave is made known.
Virgin gives private mass to devout lady unable to attend.
Miraculous healing by Virgin Mary.
Healing spittle of Virgin Mary.
Miracles of healing performed before image of Virgin Mary.
Virgin Mary restores severed hand to Saint John Damascene.
Virgin Mary saves life of man who at devil's instigation has castrated himself.
Virgin Mary restores life to drowned man who always had saluted her.
Virgin Mary designates favorite for election for office.
Virgin restores office to an ignorant man because of his faith.
Virgin pardons man who repented for cheating in election.
Virgin Mary supplies mead for unprepared hostess of the king.
Portrait of the Virgin appears to devotee.
Virgin Mary rescues man attacked by the devil.
Virgin Mary brings man a pact he signed with the devil and frees the man from devil's power.
Virgin miraculously prevents nun (monk) from deserting cloister.
Image of Virgin tries in vain to keep nun from leaving convent.
Virgin Mary converts a Jew.
Devotee of Virgin is comforted in the hour of death.
Miracles performed under protection of Virgin Mary.
Boy under protection of Virgin Mary pulled from well alive after a week.
Virgin Mary saves devotee from death in waves.
Virgin Mary destroys Moorish army besieging Constantinople.
Virgin Mary saves devotee's son from shipwreck.
Image of Virgin Mary works miracles.
Virgin Mary as foster mother.
Virgin Mary comforts repentant criminals.
Virgin Mary appears to erring man.
Virgin Mary appears to erring monk and exalts him to prayer.
Virgin Mary appears and pardons monk who has been too overworked to pray to her.
Virgin Mary aids repentant slayer of priest.
Virgin Mary appears to devotee.
Virgin Mary appears to devout nun with infant Jesus.
Devotee of Virgin Mary given present by her.
Stella Maris: Virgin Mary as protectress of sailors.
Testament of Virgin Mary.
During a flood the Virgin descends into the streets to save her image from the flood waters.
Master poets (ollamhs) as sacred persons.
The Apostles of Christ.
Appearance of the Apostles.
The Twelve Apostles of Ireland.
Lepers as sacred persons.
The Pope.
Belief in the life to come.
Doctrine of immortality taught by druids.
Man converted to belief in future life on deathbed.
Dying man refuses to believe in life to come.
Given choice between life and heaven, person chooses latter.
Belief in Immaculate Conception.
Proclamation of dogma of Immaculate Conception stops plague.
Man miraculously dies for opposing dogma of Immaculate Conception.
Last judgment.
Belief in the Atonement.
Power of repentance.
Efficacy of prayer.
"He that asks shall receive." The chosen people.
Holy land.
Insane man burns heretic in his bed: restored to his senses as reward.
Heretical baptism.
Atheists.
Epicureans regarded as atheists.
Baptismal water vanishes before Aryan bishop.
Hero renounces heaven because dead companions (heathen) are not there.
Author of book against heretic honored by Virgin Mary and angels.
Man sets fire to his house and perishes in it rather than accept Christianity.
Conversion to Christianity.
Druid converted to Christianity.
Three (two) Irishmen who believed in Christianity before the coming of St. Patrick.
Conversion to Christianity through miracle.
Conversion to Christianity by miracle of seeing blood flow from Jesus' image.
Conversion to Christianity through appearance of the cross and angels.
Conversion to Christianity because the heathen gods prove to be less powerful.
Conversion because saint's staff miraculously goes through neophytes' foot.
Conversion to Christianity on pain of death.
Miraculous beautification upon conversion to Christianity.
Conversion to Christianity through repentance.
Conversion to Christianity through love.
Conversion to Christianity out of gratitude.
Saladin asks to be made a Christian knight.
Fairies converted to Christianity.
Swans (transformed children) do not suffer in harsh weather after conversion to Christianity.
Conversion to Christianity because of admiration for Christian virtue.
Conversion to Christianity through show of forgiveness and gentleness.
Baptism of heathen.
Conversion to Judaism.
Pagan sybil draws picture of Madonna and Child in sand.
Sign of cross intimidates Jews.
Jews protesting against marriage of Jewess and Christian are struck dumb.
Temple about to be taken over by pagans saved by appearance of a Sign of the Cross (image of the Virgin).
Dove flies out of man's mouth.
Skeptic kicked by sacrificial animal.
Idols found on their faces after saint's arrival.
Duel (debate) to prove which religion is better.
Wise heretic is vanquished in debate with a Christian.
Brahmin wins a discussion on religion.
Unbeliever loses argument with hermit.
Magician overpowered in contest with a saint.
Contest of St. Peter with Simon Magus, a magician.
Prayer-contest to prove which religion is better.
Contest of miraculous powers between a Yogi and a Musselman.
Pagan disputant with Christian stricken dumb.
Pagan disputant with Christian bested by the words put in his mouth by God.
Life of heroic age preferable to Christian living.
Buddhists become slaves of Taoists because they cannot produce rain.
Christian hero (saint) overthrows heathen idols.
Saint dispels pagan devils from ancient shrines.
Pagan shrines and idols, or magic books destroyed by fire from heaven.
Heathen idols sink into earth up to their necks through power of saint.
Saint's bachall pointed at idol defaces it.
Christian child killed to furnish blood for Jewish rite.
Plague from Jews' poisoning wells.
Jewish child thrown into oven by father for taking eucharist.
Jewish child resurrected (saved by power of Virgin Mary) after being burned to ashes for eating consecrated bread in Christian church.
A Christianized Jew becomes a priest.
Jewish traditions concerning non-Jews.
Heathen beats his god because of misfortune.
Doctor ridicules belief in Devil, Heaven, and Hell.
Religious fanaticism.
Prolonged prostration in worship causes death.
Hindu drinks water by mistake from Mohammedan's vessel: his fortune turns to evil.
Romans won't include Jesus in their pantheon because of his poverty which they hate.
Charity rewarded above prayer or hearing of masses.
Prince's motto: charity conquers.
Miraculous reward for charities.
Queen gives away a sleeve of her dress: miraculously restored.
Saint exchanges coat with beggar: gold sleeves miraculously appear.
Man who has given all in charity has foot amputated: restored miraculously.
Stones turn to gold for charitable money-lender.
Treasure given away by saint miraculously restored.
Man earns as much as he gave away for charity in his former life.
Food given away by saint miraculously restored.
Charitable king blows nose after having given to beggar.
Jesus appears to St. Martin when he gives his cloak to beggar.
Charity miraculously repaid: flame settles on forehead.
Miraculous manifestations during act of charity.
Bread stolen by St. Nicholas for purpose of feeding poor is miraculously restored.
The more bread (flour) the monks give to the poor the more God places in their bins.
Son's acts of charity save his father's soul.
Saint shares punishment of sinful man whose cloak he shared in life.
Children envious of money given by deceased father to bishop.
Act of charity obliterates sin.
Man convicted of cheating at his bookkeeping is excused when it is learned that he has given the money to the poor.
Shipman refuses alms: ship turned to stone.
Uncharitable knight drives bargain even in giving alms: devoured by serpents.
Uncharitable pope wanders after death.
Charity of usurers ineffective.
Man beggars self by charity.
Charity of saints.
Conqueror restores kingship to king for charity.
Pious man charitable to man who has formerly refused him charity.
Mendicant refuses to accept alms from barren woman.
Saint repeatedly bestows father's goods upon the poor.
Merit for charity lost by asking work in return.
Forgiveness.
Saint heals enemy.
First-born son and one of every ten born thereafter given to Church.
Levites as religious order.
Clerical virtue.
Obedient and industrious nun the worthiest in the convent.
Truthful monk refuses to cheat even for his order.
Chastity as clerical virtue.
Submission as clerical virtue.
Truthfulness as clerical virtue.
Extended meditation as clerical virtue.
Monk lives where people speak ill of him to avoid danger of flattery.
Clerical virtue of absolute faith.
Poverty as saintly virtue.
Asceticism.
Kingship renounced to become an ascetic.
Since salvation is predestined, asceticism deemed useless.
Husband abandons wife to become ascetic.
Murderer becomes ascetic.
Maintaining silence as ascetic practice.
Ascetic fasting.
Ascetic faster increases his sufferings by placing food and drink before himself.
Person refuses to eat dainties.
Saint refuses pearls as alms and asks for food.
Death from ascetic devotions.
Ascetic weeping.
Asceticism: allowing self no repose.
Asceticism: cleric practices continual genuflexion.
Cross vigil.
Saint always extends one hand toward heaven while performing such acts as eating or reaping.
Ascetic cleric tortures his flesh.
Ascetic cleric prays to become diseased.
Ascetic cleric wears hair garment.
Saint never wears woolen clothing, but skins of wolves and other beasts.
Ascetic cleric sleeps (prays) with wet sheet (mantle) about him.
Ascetic cleric sleeps on stone.
Saint takes but little sleep.
Saint stands for seven years without sleep.
Ascetic cleric avoids listening to music.
Ascetic cleric never smiles.
Ascetic immersion.
Saint confines himself in narrow pen during Lent.
Saint stands (asleep) while bird builds nest and hatches brood in his hand.
Ascetic cleric leads mendicant life.
Ascetic cleric lives for seven years on whale's back.
Ascetic cleric renounces world (to become a herder).
Monk refuses chance of having temptation removed since he considers it strengthening to have it ever present to test him.
Evil ascetic misuses magic powers obtained through religious meditation.
Boy takes twelve years to wash off ascetic's dirt.
Religious martyrdom.
Cleric surrenders life that body may consecrate land.
First martyr: John the Baptist.
Self-torture to secure holiness.
Clerical vices.
Incontinence of clergy.
Incontinent monk (priest).
Monk seduces girl; then kills her; becomes infidel.
Marriage of clerics.
Incontinent nun.
Nun hidden by abbess from pursuing knight betrays her own hiding place to him.
Nun tempted into sinning with man who tells her God can't see things that happen in the dark.
Simony.
Pope guilty of simony.
Priest uses cook-book instead of breviary.
Priest is bribed into betraying the confessional.
Taking clerical vows heals disease.
Clerical vows because of disappointment in love.
Man becomes hermit when he realizes selfishness of his beloved's love.
Former monk refuses to take pay for his work, considering it as a religious act.
Renunciation of clerical vows.
Monk who has left order punished (dies in torment).
Monk who has left his order forgiven and miraculously reinstated.
Man who is disappointed with his religious order renounces his vow.
Saint leaves his order because he is fond of music.
Anchorite tempted by money to return to worldly life.
God speaks in vision to devotee.
Only man without sin can see God.
Visions of the other world.
Visions of heaven.
Saints have visions of heaven.
Vision of angels defending road to heaven against devils.
Visions of hell.
Vision of fires of hell.
Vision of gate of hell.
Girl sees vision of her mother in hell.
Visions of purgatory.
Visions of Land of the Saints.
Vision of judgment.
His faith into the balance.
Man whose only good deed was unintentional sees this deed outweigh all his evil in the scales of judgment.
Saints have miraculous visions.
Saint incited (instructed) through vision.
Vision of the earth in the devil's snares.
Non-religious visions.
Allegorical visions.
Allegorical visions--religious.
Vision of chairs (thrones) in heaven.
Wife sees moon enter mouth of husband; husband sees star enter mouth of wife: famous child (saint) will be born.
Saint sees vision of flames covering Ireland quenched except for sparks; then great light appears, dispelling darkness.
When shower falls, small stone becomes larger, large stone wastes away.
Vision in which swineherd sees yew tree upon a rock, with an oratory in front of it and angels ascending from it.
Constantine's vision of the Cross.
Vision of dry bones.
Allegorical visions--political.
Vision in which chieftain sees pair of gray seals that sucked at his two breasts.
Vision in which king sees whelp reared by him gather dogs of Ireland and Britain against him but suffer death in battle at last.
Vision in which saint foresees allegorically the ramifications of king's family Irish myth: Cross.
Vision in which king sees his four sons changed into lion, greyhound, beagle, cur, which fight with alternating success, until lion
subdues the other three.
Vision of future.
Sinner reformed after visit to heaven and hell.
The only king ever saved in spite of himself.
Sinner who thinks of God saved; devotee who thinks of worldly things goes to hell.
Worship of particular deity brings reward of birth in Brahma-world.
Pilgrimage to Holy Land.
Pilgrimage to follow roads Christ walked.
Pilgrimage to Mecca.
Pilgrimage to Benares.
Pilgrimage to Jerusalem.
Man is prevented from taking passage on ship which later sinks.
Man hears voice telling him to leave danger spot in mine.
Good inclinations enter body at puberty.
Saint never drives fly or gnat from his face.
Saint gives calf to wolf.
Generosity.
Philanthropist will give his spurs if someone will drive his horse for him.
Munificent monarch.
Emperor thinks day lost when he gives no gifts.
King will not eat breakfast till gifts are given.
Man divides money into three parts: (1) for the poor, (2) for pilgrims, (3) for himself and family.
Man lets himself be sold as slave so as to practice generosity.
Brahmin steals to feed guests (deities).
Generosity toward enemy.
Ruler pardons his enemies.
Man pardons his assailants.
Ruler pardons emissary who has come to murder him.
Wronged knight conquers enemy and then pardons him.
Conqueror returns defeated man's wife and family to him.
Conqueror spares city.
Ruler reproaches son for bringing him the head of his fallen enemy.
Man saved through intercession of enemy.
Man pays fine for enemy who is falsely accused.
Captor contributes to captive's ransom.
Warrior gives steed to his enemy.
Calumniated woman intercedes for accusers.
Man's life spared through the intercession of the daughter he has wronged.
Champion grants requested boon of safe convoy to his enemies.
Chieftain spares enemies whom he takes unawares (unarmed).
Chieftain who takes king unawares, spares him on condition that chieftain be called "lover" by women of king's tribe.
Hero in battle refuses to slay charioteers, women, or physicians.
Ruler generously settles quarrel between loser and finder of money.
Nobleman's generosity enables impoverished lover to entertain his lady.
Impoverished nobleman offers wife to ruler.
General sends for king so that the latter may get credit for victory.
Prince donates all including a tooth.
Ruler protects thief.
Ruler rewards man who would curb him.
The generous correction.
King rewards knight with large sum of money.
Novel sign of death.
Youngest brother shares wealth with older brothers who foolishly lost theirs.
Generous person refuses no man anything.
Generous king gives away his only eye.
Hospitality as a virtue.
Man (king) prefers death to loss of reputation for hospitality.
Man looks for strangers so as to bestow hospitality on them.
Woman shelters son's murderer out of charity.
Murderer goes to victim's son and asks to be killed.
Bishop exchanges places with prisoner so as to have him return to his mother.
Envious man sets out to kill one who is noted for his generosity.
Emperor friendly to everyone.
Man never listens to scandal.
Man speaks no evil.
Equanimity of the comedian.
Equanimity of the enslaved unfortunate.
Minister always says, "It is for the best," when anything happens.
Patience.
Gratitude.
Man weeps with gratitude to God because He did not make him hideous as toad.
Self-sacrifice.
Woman drinks poison that son may be king.
Woman sacrifices life for son's honor.
Man leaps from vessel into jaws of sea-beast so as to save remaining passengers.
Saint threatens to take place of homicide in hell unless soul is released.
Obedience.
Bravery.
King Richard leads host to victory by leaping his horse overboard.
Heroism.
Badly wounded warrior continues fighting.
Warrior refuses to delay battle in return for promise of long, happy life.
Loyalty.
Man constrained to flee with leader' s fiancйe resists her
blandishments.
Loyal friends refuse to fight against disgraced comrade.
Cowardly to leave battle while lord is alive.
Fakir rewarded by prince with a life of luxury in city chooses to return to his monkey friends in jungle.
Justice.
Man picked to judge bull-fight because he is "no fairer to his friend than to his foe."
Upright judge refuses a bribe: he is responsible to a higher tribunal called Conscience.
Conscientiousness.
Man never breaks his word.
Oil well digger runs out of money, leaves the country, forgetting to tell his driller.
Man keeps promise to return to be eaten by tiger: let go without harm.
Rabbi returns jewel found with bought ass.
Peacefulness.
Honor.
Prostrate soldier asks his enemy to stab him in the chest instead of the back in order to save his honor.
Laziness.
Contest in laziness.
Man lets legs burn in fire rather than move them.
Man is burned to death because he is too lazy to put out spark.
Lazy man's belongings burn.
Man too lazy to open eyes to see where fire is burning.
Three lazy beggars burn alive rather than run away from burning castle.
Mother calls to daughter to tell her that she (daughter) is standing on a live coal.
Man will not lift knife to cut rope about to hang him.
Man will not move in bed when water drops in his eyes.
Man so lazy that he will not wipe his running nose.
Man floating in river too lazy to drink.
Man too lazy to pick up berries (dates).
The lazy servant.
Lazy servant gets others to perform his duties.
Servant to call his master at daybreak: Servant to close door at night: leaves it open so that he
will not have to open it next morning.
"If it is day, give me food; if it is night, let me sleep." Boy to see whether it is raining: calls dog (cat) in and
feels of his paws.
Boy to see whether there is fire in the house: feels of cat to see if she is warm.
The boy eats breakfast, dinner, and supper one immediately after the other; then lies down to sleep.
Lazy boy always says that it is raining.
Lazy boy says he cannot walk.
Servant tells master to cover his face: no need to put out lamp.
The lazy wife.
Lazy wife in soiled dress thinks husband is bringing her a new dress from market.
Cat beaten for not working.
Lazy wife throws bread out of window instead of putting it back into oven.
Why he beats her.
Wife too lazy to spin.
"Who will not work, shall not eat." Lazy husband.
Other lazy persons.
Lazy mother given shoes of cotton; son knows that she will not wear them out.
Lazy girl does not know where the spring is.
Lazy man asked direction only points with his foot.
Lazy dog wakes only for his meals.
Man in mud too lazy to take hand extended to help him up.
Lazy son-in-law: afraid of a dog.
Ruler is too lazy to stop quarrels.
Man with stolen fig in his mouth submits to having cheek lanced rather than open his mouth.
Man is so lazy that he starves rather than open his mouth for food to fall in when it falls from trees.
Learning a trade in bed.
Lazy man asks if wood is split before he accepts it as a gift.
Lazy man is being taken to poorhouse or out of town or to cemetery to be buried alive.
Lazy man misses seeing the sheriff's funeral; he is facing the wrong way as the procession passes.
Man digs three potatoes in one day: one dug, one being dug, one about to be dug.
Man weeds garden from cushioned rocking chair, using fire tongs to reach weeds.
Slovenliness.
The slovenly fiancйe.
Woman becomes clean only after three washings and the use of three pounds of soap.
Rancher is not recognized by his wife and family after he has cleaned up in town at hotel.
Vanity.
Old woman reaches town before vain fop who stops to adjust clothes.
Expenditure of money for vanity.
Plain people made rulers have vain display.
Peacock admires self in mirror.
Wasp seeking fame stings courtiers: killed.
Wealthy man pretends enjoyment of good music.
Use of strange language to show one's high education.
Jackal forces all animals who come to drink to praise him like a king.
Boastfulness.
Neglected wife given trifle boasts of it.
Cowardice.
Hunter wants to be shown lion tracks, not lion himself.
Coward boasts when there is no danger.
Ass insults dying lion.
Fox insults caged lion.
Crow sits on sheep's back; afraid to sit on dog's.
Dogs tear up lion skin: fear living lion.
Coward gloats over robber slain by another person.
Monkey safe in tree insults gorilla as "broken face".
Cowardly soldier turns back when he hears raven's croak.
Queen mother shames cowardly son and companions.
Cowardly spider rushes at fly but hides when wasp appears.
Coward gives his purse to thief with lame excuse.
Cowardly bridegroom flees elephant and loses bride.
Illness from fear.
Swooning from cowardice.
Indecision.
The man who only tasted wine.
Gluttony.
Greedy animal eats poisoned fruit in spite of warning.
Gluttonous wife eats all the meal while cooking it.
New son-in-law given choice of meals eats all.
Pupil eats cakes given as alms for his master.
Husband eats wife's share of food as well as his own.
Disobedience.
Monk obedient only as long as work is agreeable.
Petulance.
Dissatisfaction.
Hog tired of his daily food.
Dissatisfied fox.
Dissatisfied rivers complain against sea.
Peacock dissatisfied with his voice.
Monk dissatisfied with things as he has them is admonished to take what he receives from God.
Sparrow dissatisfied with pond water wants to go to sea.
Profligacy.
Profligate wastes entire fortune before beginning his own adventures.
Inconsistency.
Prince penalizes cursing, although he himself curses.
Woman admires marvelous shot of hero which kills deer, but angers him when she begs mercy for the deer.
False modesty.
Look! look! she cries from the barrel.
Curiosity.
Talkativeness.
Greed.
Cauldron of greed.
Harlot weeps when her impoverished lover leaves her to think that she has left him his coat.
Visiting friends take everything from house of dying man.
Visitors of sick stag eat up all his provisions so that he starves.
Hospitable man impoverished by greedy guests.
Wolves devour an ox without leaving a share for the rightful owner.
Snake and weasel stop fighting in order to catch mouse.
Father-in-law sued for breach of contract because he does not die in two years as he has predicted.
Hog with broken leg refuses to tell another where peas are to be found.
Eats up the money.
Thieves quarrel over booty: owner comes.
Greedy person (animal) gets hand (head) stuck in food jar.
Greedy man tries to stuff food into his nostrils as well as into his mouth.
Stinginess.
Fox spoils his food rather than divide with ape.
Man had rather be burned alive than to share food with a guest.
Stingy dead woman raises her head to correct account of laundress, who is overcharging her daughter.
Stingy man forced to share his money when he lies and says he has none.
Stingy woman will not give soup to man until she spills it.
Stingy king will not hire soldiers: defeated.
Spider in stingy woman's house grows thin.
Stingy horse refuses ass little feed, though he promises much for later time.
Stingy man cancels invitations to his guests.
Drummer drums for own wedding so as to save expense.
Stingy men love possessions so much that they wear out their feet to save shoes.
Stingy man and his servants.
Farmer gets help up early in morning for a light breakfast: a glass of water and a lantern.
Stingy farmer encourages help by promise of hot lunch.
Master insists that maid whistle when she brings in the dessert.
Master insists that servants whistle as they pick strawberries so that they cannot eat any.
The stingy man and his animals.
A stranger notices that man's cows need feed, feeds them.
Man who insists on using everything that is useful.
Man finds a bunghole lying around loose, has cooper build a barrel around it.
Man saves sausage skins, sends them back for refilling.
Stingy man does not eat butter; only looks at it and enjoys the thought.
Wife of stingy man prays that her husband become sick so that she can get better food.
Wife keeps half of the money she plans to give for a shrine.
Miserliness.
Miser's heart found in his strong-box.
Miserly husband spies on wife to see that she does not eat too much.
Miserly husband spies on wife, lest she cook too much.
Miserly wife exposed to guests by her husband.
Man is so miserly that he never drinks wine until it becomes strong.
Friar so miserly that he stays in ditch three days before "lending" a hand to his rescuers.
Miser dreams that he spends some money.
Miser decides not to commit suicide.
Miser is given rope to hang himself.
Miser appoints himself as the sole heir of his own estate.
Miser decides to kill his pigs himself.
Miser is rebuked by friend.
Miser dies because he will not buy a candle.
Dying miser tells son to extinguish candle just as soon as he dies.
Miser runs back home to put out lamp left burning.
Miser is kidnapped and held for ransom.
Wood dealer prays for raja's death so that he can sell sandal wood for funeral pyre.
Miser tries to reduce sacrifice promised to god.
Miser prays to enter heaven with his clothes on: gold coins sewn into undergarments.
Ingratitude.
Man dismissed after years of service with a pittance.
Usurer's ingratitude toward servant.
Monster ungrateful for rescue.
Rescued animal threatens rescuer.
Man ungrateful for rescue by animal.
Crane pulls bone from wolf's throat: wolf refuses payment.
Lion rescued from net by rat: eats rat.
Tiger has thorn pulled by man: attacks man.
Hunter beats dog which has grown old in his service.
Dog tries to bite man rescuing him from well.
Ungrateful fox hits with tail the man who carries him across stream.
Man kills whale which carried him home across sea.
Man who has been rescued from pit tries to kill his monkey rescuer for food.
Ungrateful ape plucks feathers from heron who has carried him across water.
Ungrateful wanderer pulls nut tree to pieces to get the nuts.
Wanderers in shade of plane tree blame it for not bearing fruit.
Grateful animals; ungrateful man.
Man rescued from drowning kills rescuer.
Whales rescue drowning king who planned to kill them.
Snake kills ungrateful tamer.
Tiger returns rope to former captor: rewarded by having tail cut off.
Man kills his rescuer in order to collect reward.
Knight is ungrateful for rescue in battle.
Ungrateful Brahmin brings his wild goose rescuer to king as remedy against leprosy.
Ungrateful brothers plot against rescuer.
Benefactor falsely accused of theft by ungrateful youth.
Woman who saves suitor from death is later condemned to die by the ingrate.
Kind magistrate is victim of ingratitude.
Ruler persecutes his friends and is kind to his enemies.
Man beheads rescuer for leaving him so long in pain.
Man ungrateful for life saved because rescuer helped others also.
Ungrateful Jew steals horse of Christian who has lent it to him.
Man beats people bearing him gifts.
Workers (builder) killed when secret building or grave is finished.
Person compared to nettle, which stings the hand that protects it.
Ingratitude from ignorance.
Man fails to feed his animal rescuer.
Man sets dogs onto bear after bear has carried him home to safety.
Man demands ever larger gifts.
Man trades an egg for a needle, demands treat of a gill of rum, the traditional reward for traders.
Man works his horses to death, then complains that borrowed horse overeats.
Wizard makes pupil think himself Emperor and exposes pupil's ingratitude.
Hardness of heart.
Hardhearted horse allows ass to be overburdened until it is crushed.
Old bullock deserted and left to die.
Man overloads and starves camel.
Man helping another across stream drops him when he learns that he has lost his high position.
Man unable to weep for hardness of heart.
Hardhearted person refuses reprieve for father's murderers.
Permission refused to drink from water tank.
The dog in the manger.
Dishonesty.
Priest uses fortune dishonestly made to erect monuments to himself.
Inhospitality.
Love of publicity.
Three envoys debate as to which of them should be received with the greatest honor.
False pride.
Humble man after speaking to king disdains his own family.
Ass after associating with lion disdains his own family.
Stubbornness.
Two stubborn goats meet each other on a bridge.
Woman's stubbornness causes loss of chance to go on pilgrimage.
Two-facedness.
Man winks both at buyer and seller.
Changeableness.
Sister gives due honor and regard to brother only in times of his prosperity.
Jealousy.
Sheep jealous of dog because he does nothing.
King kills architect after completion of great building, so that he may never again build one so great.
Architect kills pupil who has surpassed him in skill.
Architect commits suicide when he discovers that his pupil has surpassed him in skill.
Raven wants to be as white as a swan.
Jealous fox betrays wolf to peasant and then appropriates wolf's cave and food.
Raven jealous of partridge's way of flying.
Jealousy of Venus in the love of Psyche and Cupid.
Ruler who is jealous of his subjects' happiness prohibits their games.
The crying child.
Violence of temper.
Man demonstrates his violence of temper.
Prayer that overbearing knight's illness be increased.
Temper lost from reading history.
Monk loses temper at cup and breaks it.
Violence of judge's temper leads him to have men given death sentence unjustly.
Insult worse than wound.
Insolence.
Contentiousness.
Extortion.
Man extorts large price for betel leaf from addict.
Envy.
Goose and turkey envious of peacock point out its ugly legs and voice.
Lack of patience.
Active imagination.
The boy: "If I had one and then got two more, I should have three."
"I surely saw a hundred wolves (snakes)." "I am not alone!" Man travelling alone through the forest
at night, is afraid of robbers.
Eagerness for combat.
Eager warriors go through tent wall.
Warriors contend with each other until battle starts.
Man will not allow food served to strangers until a man of them wrestles with him.
Host requires deed of bravery before feast is eaten.
Man will not do a woman's bidding.
Extreme prudence.
Magic help sent to enemy.
Refusal to fight wounded enemy.
Long life sacrificed that descendants may be kings as prophesied.
Thrift.
Thrifty merchant tells son that even a snake laid by will be useful.
Taciturn man.
Man is rebuked for loquaciousness when he speaks after thirty-seven days.
Moving home simple for poor man.
Red pepper for the slow ass: man tries it on himself.
Man interrupted each time he tries to eat something.
Man continually interrupted from eating answers in rhymed monosyllables.
Accidental cannibalism.
The dream of marking the treasure.
Man dreams that he is rich.
Pig licks sleeping man's lips: man thinks he is being kissed.
Wager with overdressed youths that servant can carry a large bucket of water upstairs.
Use of itch-producing ointment.
Ridiculous nakedness or exposure.
Woman exposed to ridicule when her wig is snatched off by a monkey.
Man given ride on a hemp-dresser.
Deaf men and their answers.
Deaf persons: search for the lost animal.
Deaf peasant: travelers ask the way.
Two persons believe each other deaf.
Deaf peasant: the wedding invitation.
Deaf man on the bridge.
The deaf man and the proud nobleman.
Misunderstood words lead to comic results.
The deaf man with the bird in the tree.
Deaf man visits the sick.
"Good day." Buyer and deaf seller.
The deaf parson.
The deaf bishop.
Deaf litigants and deaf judge misunderstand one another.
Travelers pass through Wesley.
Deaf husband orders deaf wife to prepare a certain dish: misunderstanding.
Misunderstanding and quarrels in family of deaf.
The wife who saw double.
The squint-eyed son and the bottle.
One-eyed man as appraiser of horse.
Blind man and the bull.
Blind man reaches his home hanging on ox's tail (or in other ridiculous situation).
Nearsighted knight mistakes own servant for one of the enemy.
Blind man strikes woman thinking she is buffalo.
Blind son-in-law visits his wife's family: gets into difficulties.
Blind men trying to kill pigs with clubs strike one another.
Blind man in awkward position pretends to see.
The wry-mouthed family.
Man calls convention of all long noses.
The humor of stuttering.
Each of four stutterers thinks the others are ridiculing him.
Stutterer tries to give alarm.
Humor of ugliness.
Blind, lame, and deaf as witnesses in court.
The humor of small stature.
Dwarf king falls into porridge-pot at court of human king.
Dwarf poet forced to swim in drinking-horn of human being.
Tiny ambassador put on horse with long stirrups.
Short magistrate wears a high helmet.
Humor of lameness.
Lame man taken on hunt in wheel chair beats the dogs home when they tree a spook or when a bear gets after them.
Humor of bad singing.
Audience of one hired to listen to egoistic dismal-voiced singer.
Humor of fatness.
Six short, fat husbands married to six tall, fat wives try absurdly to kiss them at the threshold on their wedding day.
Fat man so unwieldly he fishes from his window in the street.
Millers as thieves.
The honest miller.
Priest commends the poor miller.
Why no millers in hell.
Monks get revenge on millers.
Oversight of the thievish tailor.
Thievish tailor cuts a piece of his own coat.
Thieving tailor can hide stolen cloth even in needle-and-thread tube.
Tailor always associated with goat.
Tailors cowards as warriors: go home to their needles.
Butcher wonders that man who has been buying his meat for seven years can still be alive.
Ugly cobbler continually threatens to throw his last at people.
Shoemaker drinks more than his portion of "drink of lies", which has been prepared for all to partake of equally.
Jokes on weavers.
Why no weavers in hell.
Jokes about barbers.
Client flees when cobwebs are brought in to medicate cuts.
Barber uses cut hair to staunch cuts.
Jokes on fishermen.
Talkativeness of the fishwives of Paris.
What will happen when there are so many lawyers.
Beggar frightens lawyer into giving by telling him of all the lawyers in hell.
Dying like Christ--between two thieves.
Lawyer who tries to practice without lying fails.
Dying lawyer says, "I appeal".
Dying lawyer asks delay.
Nero has reserved place in hell for lawyers.
Lawyer thrown back into mud when rescuers learn that he is a lawyer.
Lawyer loses tongue in death because he sold it in life.
Miscellaneous jokes about lawyers.
Eloquent lawyer makes obviously guilty client doubt his own guilt.
Guilty of everything connected with the seven senses.
Foreigner wonders why city with so many judges has not been destroyed.
Music teacher charges double for those who have taken music before.
Master of seven liberal arts begs from wagoner.
Jokes on doctors.
Doctor cures palpitation of heart: patient stops breathing.
Head cut off to cure snakebite.
Eyedrops prescribed for stomach ache so that patient can see what he eats.
Foolish doctor performs useless operation.
Man with cheeks stuffed with food operated on to remove swellings.
Doctor called to attend sick man immediately gives orders for the funeral.
Parson put to flight during his sermon.
Sexton's dog steals sausage from parson's pocket: parson flees.
Sexton puts needle in sacramental bread: parson sticks his hand.
Sexton arranges wasp-nest so that parson sits on it.
Tame bear tied to church bells.
One-eyed parson in dimly lighted church joins the wrong couples.
Parson rides ox into church.
The hog in church.
Parson preaches so that half the congregation weeps and half laughs.
Parson smears his hand with butter.
Parson is to let a dove fly in the church.
At the blessing of the grave the parson's ox breaks loose: "Now the devil has him."
The corpse with his feet cut off.
The devil in the cemetery.
Robbers mistake man for devil (the "sheep" speaks, "Gently, gently!").
The parson who said there is no devil.
If his son were only a fool he would let him study to be a priest.
A bad year for priests: few funerals.
Enmity between priests and monks: chickens and eggs.
The hungry parson and the porridge-pot.
Stupid man tries to take honey from jug at night while visiting.
The parson put out of countenance.
The large loaves need a large oven.
Grace before meat.
The boy applies the sermon.
"What says David?"--Boy: "Pay your old debts." Parson "Where did the father stay?"--"He stayed to hold the
oxen." Parson: Where was Christ when he was neither in heaven nor
on earth?--He was in the willow-grove looking for a stick to beat those who ask foolish questions.
Names of persons in the Trinity.
Sermon about the rich man.
The parson sings like a goat.
The dream: all parsons in hell.
All devout women in hell.
Parson and sexton at mass.
"I can't hear you." Whistling at mass.
Parson's poor horsemanship.
Chaplain on bucking mule.
Parson refreshes himself during the sermon.
Parson takes a drink of liquor during the sermon.
Parson takes a chew of tobacco during the sermon.
Cock crows at church and the sexton awakes and begins to sing.
The parson has no need to preach.
No need to give sermon about saint again.
The woman whose name was "Worthy." Chapel endowed with fifty blows for the friar.
Jokes on monks.
Bishop willing to admit castrated man as monk: wishes all were in the same condition.
Jokes on parsons--miscellaneous.
Man heeds what he thinks to be call to the ministry.
Young man plowing corn sees letters "P.
Jokes on fortune-tellers.
Fortune-teller shows others how to get rich but remains poor himself.
Barber alone praises usurer.
Usurers do not reply.
Devil will not carry usurers to hell but will drag them by the legs.
Only usurers can carry the corpse of the usurer.
Usurer encourages sermons against usury, so that his competitors will cease activity.
Only prostitutes can carry the corpse of a prostitute.
Begging cripples hurry away from shrine lest they be healed and lose their livelihood.
Cohabitation between lunatics brought about for sport.
Jokes on freemasons.
Jokes about travelers.
Jokes about hunters.
Man chased by bear to camp claims that he brought it in thus since he did not want to carry it.
How the Jews were drawn from heaven.
Trickster breaks up Jewish marriage ceremony and seduces the bride.
Battle between lice of Strassburg and of Hungary.
Learning the Bavarian language.
Why Arabians are liars.
Blason populaire.
The old maid in bed.
A youth promises to marry an old maid if she will sit all night on the roof.
The meal of beans.
The wolf steals the old maid.
The mother trains the old maid to speak properly.
Drunk man lying under his bed thinks he is lying in his shroud.
Drunk man goes to the king and wants to buy an island.
Drunk man at the wedding.
Drunk men try to see one another home.
Drunk man sees everything revolving and waits for his house to come to him.
Drunk woman thinks she is in heaven.
Drunk recruits make war on a haystack.
Drunken volunteer firemen bungle their work.
One lie a year.
Liar comes to believe his own lie.
Lie used as catch tale.
The teller reduces the size of his lie.
The liar reduces the size of his lie when his brother steps on his toes to remind him of his lying habits.
Liar reduces the size of his yarn when challenged.
Lying contests.
Master brought to say, "You lie!" Greatest liar made king of Schlaraffenland.
Claim of property based on unusual lie.
The liar: "I have no time to lie today"; lies nevertheless.
Boy to deceive his uncle: induces uncle to climb tree before deception begins: this is the deception.
Would not lie for a trifle.
Man has servant corroborate his lies.
The second liar corroborates the lie of the first.
Lie: sea has burned up.
Other stories about liars.
The incorrigible liar.
Church member who has been called to task about his lying habits tells another lie in expressing his concern for his weakness.
The liar outdoes the tricksters who try to catch him in a lie.
Lie concerning birth of hero.
Lie concerning babyhood and boyhood of hero.
Lie: death of extraordinary man.
Lie: persons with remarkable bodily parts.
Lie: remarkably tall person.
Lie: great weight of large person.
Lie: great girth of large person.
Lie: remarkably thin persons.
Lie: remarkable eater.
Lie: remarkable drinker.
Lie: remarkable chewer.
Lie: remarkable spitter.
Lie: remarkable blower.
Lie: person with remarkable hearing.
Lie: person with remarkable voice.
Lie: person of remarkable sight.
Lie: other motifs pertaining to extraordinary senses or bodily powers.
Remarkable lifter.
Whole village lifted.
Fight on old woman's hand.
Elephant (camel) put in pocket as a curiosity to show friends.
Wind blows group of persons into woman's eye.
Lie: remarkable carrier.
Lie: man ties up 700 camels in a corner of his sheet.
Lie: remarkable thrower.
Beautiful girl seated on large lotus flower holding big elephant in each hand which she devours and throws off alternately.
Lie: child throws out elephant's carcass.
Lie: remarkable catcher.
Lie: remarkable hitter or striker.
Lie: remarkable breaker.
Lie: remarkable bender.
Lie: remarkable twister.
Lie: remarkable squeezer.
Lie: remarkable pincher.
Lie: strong puller.
Man draws sixty (300) carts of wood.
Lie: remarkable pusher.
Lie: remarkable killer.
Lie: hero responsible for topographical features (lakes, rivers, etc.).
Lie: other strong physical reactions.
Lie: hero breaking wen causes wall to fall down.
Lie: extraordinary bodily skills.
Lie: remarkable swimmer.
Lie: remarkable diver.
Lie: remarkable jumper.
Lie: remarkable kicker.
Lie: remarkable oarsman.
Lie: remarkable fighter.
Lie: remarkable wrestler.
Lie: remarkable smith.
Lie: skillful flayer.
Lie: skillful axe-man.
Axe of wax cuts jungle.
Lie: remarkable logger.
Lie: remarkable rock driller.
Lie: remarkable carpenter.
Lie: remarkable thresher.
Lie: remarkable user of whip.
Lie: remarkable roper.
Lie: remarkable rider.
Lie: man rides unusual riding animal (lion, deer, etc.).
Lie: man rides cyclone.
Lie: remarkable cook.
Lie: the great inventor.
Lie: person displays remarkable ingenuity or resourcefulness.
Lie: axes ground on boulders rolling down hill.
Lie: remarkable clothing of remarkable man.
Lie: remarkable bouncing rubber boots (or the like).
Lie: other extraordinary personal effects of remarkable person.
Lie: extraordinary equipment of remarkable man.
Lie: extraordinary tools of remarkable man.
Lie: extraordinary machinery of remarkable man.
The great building.
Lie: the great kitchen.
Lie: remarkable equipment in big kitchen.
Lie: The great kettle.
Lie: help in big kitchen.
Lie: remarkable cooking in big kitchen.
Lie: remarkable baking in big kitchen.
Lie: skating with bacon to grease griddle in big kitchen.
Lie: other extraordinary foods from great kitchen.
Lie: remarkable food preferences.
Lie: extraordinary piles of garbage from great kitchen.
Lie: the great dining quarters (Paul Bunyan tales).
Lie: the great bunkhouse.
Lie: the great hotel.
Lie: the great stable.
Lie: the great stable: distance to stall.
Lie: great boat or ship of remarkable man.
Remarkable size of great ship.
The big wedding.
Lie: remarkable logging operations.
Lie: remarkable manufacturer.
Lie: remarkable sawmill operator.
Lie: remarkable dairyman.
Lie: remarkable steel worker.
Lie: remarkable oil drilling operator.
The unlucky hunt.
Hunter shoots ram-rod full of ducks.
Hunter catches fish in boots while wading.
Man lays bag by fencehole and all the hares run into it.
Two hares run into each other and are caught.
Tiger lies in water with mouth open: cat drives fish in.
Large bag of frozen raccoons taken by hunter.
The rabbit-catch: rabbits freeze feet fast to ice at night.
The breathing tree.
Miscellaneous stories of plentiful game.
Lie: thick flock of birds.
Lie: remarkable bag of deer.
Lie: the great marksman's remarkable gun.
Lie: hunter with remarkable marksmanship.
Lie: hunter shoots projectile great distance.
Lie: person shoots many animals with one shot.
Lie: ingenious person bends gun barrel to make spectacular shot.
Lie: the hunter catches or kills game by ingenious or unorthodox method.
Shooting off the leader's tail.
Hunter turns animal inside out.
Accidental discharge of gun kills much game.
Gunshot splits limb and catches feet of birds.
Hunting wolves with rod and line.
Game rolls down hill in snow; snowball builds up around game, keeps it fresh and protected until used.
Fruit tree grows from head of deer shot with fruit pits.
Tree grows out of horse and gives rider shade.
Water of stream or lake freezes just as frogs jump into lake.
Ingenious skinning of animal.
The nailed wolf's tail.
Lie: the hunter in danger.
Lie: man uses remarkable means of getting out of tree stump.
Man escapes from bear by running for a long time, from summer to winter.
Man in barrel grabs wolf by the tail and is drawn out of danger.
Animal unwittingly puts tail into man's hands and is caught.
If the wolf's tail breaks.
Man escapes from bee's nest on bear's tail.
Tigers stand on each other's heads trying to reach man in tree.
The great catch of fish.
Lie: large number of fishermen in one spot.
Lie: fish caught by remarkable trick.
Lie: unusual catch by fisherman.
Fisherman catches fish with amazing contents.
Man catches fish with larger fish inside.
Lie: other unusual methods of catching fish.
Lie: fish caught with another's cries.
Lie: the great animal.
Lie: animals inherit acquired characteristics or conditions.
Small cart serves as back legs for crippled sow.
Lie: animal's food affects him in unusual way.
Lie: animals eat one another up.
Two wolves eat each other up so that only tails are left.
Lie: two birds swallow each other.
Lie: venom of animal (snake, hornet, bee) causes object to swell.
Snake strikes object, causing it to swell.
Lies: animals trained to respond to certain sounds: absurd result.
Animals already cooked for eating.
Roast pigs run around with knife and fork in back ready for eating.
Lie: roast hens fly, heads to sky, tails to ground.
Lies about cats.
Lie: cat scratches out bear's tongue.
Lie: crippled cat uses wooden leg to kill mice.
Lies about wildcats.
Lies about panthers.
Lies about dogs.
Dog and other animal chase each other in hot weather.
Lie: large dog.
Lie: small dog.
Lie: weak dog.
Lie: tough dog.
Lie: ferocious dog.
Lie: fast dog.
Lie: intelligent dog.
Lie: obedient or dutiful dog.
Lie: dog with remarkable scent.
Lie: the split dog.
Lie: greyhounds drag mill out of water.
Lies about wolves.
The wolf harnessed.
Lies about bears.
Lies about chipmunks.
Lie: the big chipmunk.
Lies about mice.
Lie: mice consecrate bishop.
Lies about rats.
Lie: extraordinary hog.
Lie: large hog.
Lie: large boar has bristles as long as pitchfork tines.
The great wild-boar.
Lie: tough hog.
Hog finds dynamite supply, eats it, walks behind mule; the mule kicks the hog.
Lies about thin hogs.
Miscellaneous lies about hogs.
Lie: salesman guarantees sow to bear male, then female, then kid.
Lie: remarkable cow.
Large cow.
Cow wears church bell for cowbell.
Lie about cow's rich milk.
Cow gives so much cream that several men do nothing but skim cream.
Owner provides cow with green goggles, feeds her sawdust or snow.
Lie: cow climbs to roof.
Lie: cow puts bread in oven.
Lie: remarkable ox or steer.
Lies about strong oxen.
Man plows through stump which catches the back of his pants in cleft.
Lie: the remarkable blue ox.
Lies about horses.
The great horse.
Well-trained horse.
Horse takes cattle out to pasture; brings them in by himself.
Trained horse as harvester and hunter.
Lie: horses knead dough.
Lies about mules.
Lies about asses.
Lie: ass with silver nose hunts hares.
Lies about sheep.
Lie: the great Darby ram.
Lies about goats.
Lie: goat carries one hundred cartloads of grease.
Lie: goats heat oven.
The great he-goat.
Lies about crows.
Lie: crows mow meadow.
Lies about doves.
Lie: doves tear up wolf.
Lies about geese.
Lie: man carried through air by geese.
Lie: the tough goose.
Remarkable ducks.
Remarkable hawk.
Hawk flies away with geese on a line.
Lie: hawk swims.
Lies about crossbreeding of insects.
Bumblebees imported to rout mosquitoes; the two insects crossbreed and have stingers on both ends.
Lies about ferocious insects.
Insects eat team of horses or mules, pitch horseshoes to see who gets what is left.
Lies about bees.
Lie: the great bee.
Lies about fleas.
Remarkable mosquitoes.
Lie: the large mosquito.
Lie: wingspread of large mosquito.
Lie: weight of large mosquito.
Lie: mosquito's long bill.
Large mosquitoes fly off with kettle.
Large mosquitoes carry off prey.
Big mosquito with golden palace in his mouth.
Large mosquitoes--miscellaneous.
Lies about ferocious mosquitoes.
Lie: extraordinary fireflies.
Lies about grasshoppers.
Lies about bedbugs.
Lies about flies.
Lie: flies build bridge.
Lies about gnats.
The tragic death of the three gnats.
Lies about lice.
Rag so full of lice it can move.
Lie: the great fish.
Lie: remarkable actions of big fish.
Big fish pulls man or boat.
Lie: tamed fish lives on dry land.
Dogfish act like dogs.
Crowded fish.
Lies about snakes.
Lie: the great snake.
Lie: remarkably long snake.
Lie: great snake is thought to be a log.
Lie: large number of snakes.
Lies about remarkable kinds of snakes.
Lie: hoop snake.
Lies about frogs.
Lie: the big frog.
The great frog.
Ferocious frog.
Lie: frog eats plowshare.
Lies about crabs.
Lie: crab hunts hare.
Lies about snails.
Lie: snail kills lion.
Lies about worms.
Lie: the side-hill beast.
Lie: imaginary snakes.
Lie: seaserpent.
Lie: the great vegetable.
Lie: animals live inside great vegetable, usually feeding from it.
Lie: harvesting great vegetable.
Lie: hole from which great vegetable is removed.
Lie about the fast-growing plants.
Lie: plants produce fruit in remarkably short time after planting.
Lie: the large fruit.
Lie: the great melon.
Lie: large watermelon.
Lies about large pumpkins.
Lie: large pumpkin vine.
Lie: the great pear.
Lies about cabbages.
Lie: the great cabbage.
The great mushroom.
Lies about turnips.
Lies about big turnips.
Lies about potatoes.
Lie: large potatoes.
Lies about corn (maise).
Lie: remarkable cornstalks.
Lie: remarkable yield of corn.
Lies about large trees.
Lie: tree bears unusual fruit.
Lie: pancakes growing on lime-tree.
Lie: remarkable lilies.
Lie: man raises eggs from eggplant.
Schlaraffenland.
Land in which highest praise parents can earn is that they marry their children when they are babies.
Blind town, its king fourfold blind.
Lie: land where all things are sold for the same price.
Mountain of grain to be eaten through on way to Schlaraffenland.
Topsy-turvy land.
House where omens go by contraries.
The extraordinary names.
Remarkably narrow valleys.
Lies about steep slopes of mountains.
Lie: country so steep that people look up chimney to see when the cows come home.
Lies about farming on steep mountain.
Lies about mountain roads.
Crooked railroads in mountains or hills.
Mountain of unusual material.
Lie: mountain of cheese.
Rich soil produces remarkable crop.
Rich land: corn grows so fast that it pulls up its own roots.
Lies about hot springs.
Lies about remarkable underground channels.
Water passage through the earth.
Remarkable pond.
Lie: fish pond supplies both fresh fish and cooked.
Lie: remarkable river.
Lie: round river: runs in circle without outlet.
Lie: river of honey.
Lie: honey flows up high mountain.
Remarkable road.
Roads go over roofs of houses.
Lie: Rome hanging by thread.
City into which only married and mothers may enter.
Village where rubies sell for four pice apiece.
Lie: year with two summers and no winter.
Lie: year with two winters and no summer.
Lie: mixed weather: summer in one spot and winter in another nearby.
Lies about changes in weather.
Lies about quick change from cold to warm.
Lies about quick change in weather from warm to cold.
Man freezes to saddle.
Lies about the wind.
Lies about big wind (cyclone, tornado).
Lies about freezing.
Lie: shadow freezes.
Lie: words freeze.
Lie: frozen words thaw out in the spring.
Lie: flame freezes: startling results.
Lie: effect of heat on animals.
Lie: weather so hot that corn pops in fields, animals freeze to death thinking it has snowed.
Lie: clouds beaten by man until they promise to water his crops thrice daily.
Lie: how dry weather affects animals.
Lie: bullfrogs several years old cannot swim -- have never had water to learn in.
Lies about fog.
Lie: shingling the fog.
Ship sails on thick fog.
Lies about snow.
Lie: fast-melting snow leaves horse dangling in air.
Lie: blue snow.
The man who sold dried snow for salt.
Lies about rain.
Lie: dry rain.
Lie: extraordinary floods produced by heavy rain.
Lie: heavy rain of boiling water melts palace.
Lies about extraordinary mud.
Lie: the man under the hat, which is the only thing seen above the mud.
Lies about healthy atmosphere.
Lie: air from healthy climate revives dying person.
Lie: place so healthful that residents shoot man to start cemetery.
Schlaraffenland lies three miles beyond Christmas.
Lies about surgical operations.
New backbone for the horse made from a stick.
Lie: man's organs replaced with animal's.
Lies about swallowing.
Swallowed person is discovered in animal's stomach still alive.
Fish swallows a gourd fruit where people have taken refuge during rain; hawk swallows fish.
Lie: man swallowed by fish and later rescued alive.
Falcon and heron eaten by wild boar recovered alive from his body.
Person enters animal's body.
Man crawls into body of animal (after killing it) to escape cold.
Seeing without eyes.
Digging without hands.
Man cuts off own head.
Lie: man cuts off own head and eats it.
Man cuts off own head, picks it up and replaces it.
Absurd stories about beards.
Lie: barber shaves wife's beard.
Lies about falling.
Person falls from great height without injury.
Man falls from height, goes into solid rock up to knees.
Man falls and is buried in earth: goes for spade and digs self out.
Lies about sinking.
Lie: man lifts heavy load, sinks into solid rock.
Man stays under water for long time.
Man falls through ice, has to swim two miles to come out at an air hole.
Man under the ice.
Absurd disregard of anatomy--miscellaneous.
Person swallows pin or needle; it later emerges through skin of relative.
Lie: man makes drinking water from his own skull.
Lies about gravitation.
Person or animal rises into the air in defiance of gravity.
Person or animal jumps back to starting place (from midair).
Law of gravity is petrified in petrified forest.
Lie: anvil swims river.
Lies about occupying space.
Giants go through small hole where plant has been torn from earth.
Lie: two bullocks go where one cannot.
Lie: 900,000 roofs on point of needle.
Lies about watches.
Watch continues to run indefinitely when lost (swallowed).
Disregard of nature of basketry.
Lie: people carry wine in baskets.
Rope of sand (chaff).
Rope of dry dust.
Absurd disregard of the nature of holes.
Person pulls up old oil wells and sells them for post holes after sawing them up into short lengths.
Lie: people eat the bungholes from barrels.
Lies about boats with light draft.
Boat sailing over dry river bed (rice water).
Lies about stretching or shrinking.
Lie: the stretching and shrinking harness.
Man cures rheumatism: puts mosquito milk in a cat's horn, stirs it with duck's crotch.
Lie: the realistic painting.
Lie: deaf, dumb, blind, and lame men catch hare.
Lies concerning speed.
Lie: footless man outruns swift horse.
Lies about loaves of bread.
Lie: the great loaf of bread.
Lie: the great egg.
Lie: remarkable railroad.
Lie about rough railroad.
Lies about slow trains.
Lies about bridges.
Lie: razor-sharp sword as footbridge.
Man in moon lets himself down.
Boy shot from a cannon.
Boy with hat of butter, clothes of paper, etc.
Man in hollow tree defends himself successfully from leopard and bear.
The boy in the hollow tree.
Lie: plow without horse or wheels.
Lie: suckling children rock mother in cradle.
Lie: child throws down a kid.
Lie: child throws down mill-wheels from one town to another.
Lie: man drowned on mountain.
Lie: man cuts ice with own head.
Lie: the hunt for the lost bee.
The over-hasty toad (beetle).
Why gypsies have no churches.
Lie: warrior whose horse is cut in two continues to ride on the half horse.
Lie: the great noise from the bass-viol.
Beginning formulas.
End formulas.
Transition formulas.
Endless tales.
Endless tale: corn carried away grain at a time.
Endless tale: hundreds of birds in snare fly away one at a time.
Unfinished tales.
Catch tales.
Tale-teller frightens listener: yells "Boo" at exciting point.
Catch tale: teller is killed in his own story.
"Runs." Tale avoiding all pronouns.
Tales ending with a question.
Four brothers construct a woman.
Rounds.
Formulistic conversations.
What makes your ears so big?--To hear the better, my child, etc.
Formulistic frameworks--miscellaneous.
Game-tales.
Tales filled with contradictions.
Cumulative nonsense tales.
Chains based on numbers.
Origin of chess.
Wages: successive harvests from one grain of rice.
Ehod mi yodea (One; who knows?); Le dodici parole della veritа, Las doce palabras
retorneadas.
The Twelve Days (Gifts) of Christmas: 1 partridge, 2 turtle-doves, 3 French hens, 4 colly birds, 5 gold rings, 6 geese, 7 swans, 8
maids, 9 drummers, 10 pipers, 11 ladies, 12 lords.
The Twelve kinds of Food: 1 partridge, 2 turtledoves, 3 woodpigeons, 4 ducks, 5 rabbits, 6 hares, 7 hounds, 8 sheep, 9 oxen, 10
turkeys, 11 hams, 12 cheeses.
How the Rich Man paid his Servant (Lцnen hos den rike man).
The forgetful man counts the days of the week.
Widower tells of his courtship, his marriage, and the death of his wife, all in a week.
Life story in ten hours: Bird advises man to treat his lazy children as she does her
young: "Solomon Grundy, born on Monday .... buried on Sunday."
Fly forgets her name; asks woodcutter, axe, tree, etc., in vain.
Chains involving a wedding.
Pif Paf Poltrie.
Louse and flea wish to marry.
Chains involving a death: animal actors.
The funeral procession of the hen.
The death of the cock.
The death of the little hen.
The death of the little hen described with unusual words.
Little ant finds a penny, buys new clothes with it, and sits in her doorway.
Cumulative: master to kill hen.
Mourning about the dead ass (Tulsi Das): from washerman to the queen.
Chains involving the eating of an object.
The fleeing pancake.
The fat cat.
Woman meets a pig.
The fat troll (wolf).
Louse and crow make covenant of friendship: The singing wolf.
Chains involving other events without interrelation of members.
The goat who would not go home.
The goat who would not leave the hazel bush.
There was a wee wee woman who had a wee wee cow, etc.
The crow on the tarred bridge.
Where have you been, goose?--In the fields.
Titmouse, what are you eating?--A large turnip--etc.
Sparrow, where are you going? --To eat seed.
The hen lays an egg, the mouse breaks it.
Mother ties bell on child; cat cuts it off.
Girl left in tree by sisters: asks monkey, ape, bear, and tiger to put her down or else bite her.
Small grain-measure runs away when her husband beats her: succession of suitors.
Series of things acquired by mouse The old woman and her pig.
Woman has meat (liver) stolen by bird.
Crow must wash his bill in order to eat with other birds.
Conflict between fowl and thistle.
The mouse regains its tail.
Mouse bursts open when crossing a stream.
My dog picked up a string, but did not wish to give it to me unless I gave her bread.
Lending and repaying: progressively worse (or better) bargain.
Bird's pea gets stuck in socket of mill-handle.
Gram (parched grain) sticks in post The wormwood does not want to rock the sparrow.
Boy dirties his shoe and asks the hay stack to wipe it clean.
Pulling the needle out of the seamstress's hand.
The lazy servant and the grain.
Stronger and Strongest.
The Esdras chain: stronger and strongest, wine, king, woman, truth.
Abraham learns to worship God.
Brahmin worships idol and sets sacrifices before it daily.
The cock's whiskers.
Toad asks magpie in tree to throw down a chestnut.
The cock strikes out the hen's eye with a nut.
Nut hits cock in head: he thinks world is coming to an end.
Fly frightens snake; snake frightens rats; rats frighten monkey, etc.
Boy changes self to nut; fowl eats nut; bush cat eats fowl; dog eats cat; dog swallowed by python.
Man invites animals to come and work in his field.
The house that Jack built.
The house the old man was to build.
The Horseshoe Nail.
The climax of horrors.
Series of trick exchanges.
Series of trick exchanges: razor--pot--bride--drum by tricky fox.
Miscellaneous interdependent chains.
"I killed my grandmother because she refused to cook a hare.
Cumulative pursuit.
Fat mouse cannot get into hole.
The bird indifferent to pain.
There was once a woman; the woman had a son; the son had red breeches; etc.
Where is the warehouse?--The fire burned it down.
"Where is that grain?" -- "The cock snatched it." The wolf who wanted to make bread.
Trial among the animals.
Birds fight and cause series of accidents to other animals and people.
Bite (prick) causes series of accidents.
Man sharpening his dao is bitten by a prawn.
Cumulative tale: bird who seeks carpenter to release young caught in closed tree.
Biting a grain in half.
Pulling up the turnip.
Lizard eats cricket, frog eats lizard, snake eats frog, eagle eats snake, man shoots eagle; animals escape except lizard.
Who is guilty of the accident.
Wall in construction collapses.
Thief breaks foot climbing wall to rob.
Hermit must get cat to kill rats in hunt, cow to give cat milk, etc.
Chain of killings: bulbul destroys flower and is killed by cat; cat shaken by dog; dog killed by boy; boy sentenced to death by king.
The little old lady who swallowed a fly.
Chains involving contradictions or extremes.
The house is burned down.
Bird avenges caged mate.
The animals with queer names: as hen (henny-penny), cock (cocky-locky), goose (goosey-poosey).
Never.
Never.
Forever.
Butterby Church--no church at all.
"He struck him such a blow that he remembered the milk he drank on the sixth day after he was born."
Proverbial simile.
The old and the new keys.
"Bridegroom like the sun and bride like the moon." Formulas signifying fruitlessness,
Three explanations.
Proverbs.
Proverb: one man for worship, two men for cultivation of a field, three men for a journey.
Color formulas.
Red as blood, white as snow.
Red as blood, white as snow, (and black as a raven).
Series: white cock, red cock, black cock.
Formulistic numbers.
Odd numbers --formulistic.
Formulistic numbers: a number plus one Formulistic number: three.
Triads.
Formulistic numbers: threefold (e.
Formula: three days and three nights.
Three chairs in heaven for three saints.
Three strains of (fairy) music.
Three things that lead to hell (heaven).
Three innocent children: Ananias, Zacharias, Misael.
Three Lents.
Three Maries.
Three orders of Irish saints.
Three seas surrounding the earth.
Three sods that none may escape: "The sod of his birth, the sod of his death, the sod of his burying."
Three whom Christ raised from the dead.
Three spiritual gifts of God.
Three persons who spoke immediately after birth.
Three weak things that are the strongest.
Three worst things in Ireland.
Three reasons why men should condemn wealth.
Three cries of the world.
Three bad stories of the saints of Ireland.
Formulistic number: four.
Formulistic number: fourfold Formula: north, south, east, west.
The four elements.
The four humors.
Four places that cleanse the soul.
Four categories of souls at Judgment.
Four things that prevent the holy life.
Four things to which the glory of the world is compared.
Sending four messengers with four winds.
Formulistic number: five.
Formulistic numbers: fivefold (e.
Five sighs we should vent over our sins.
Five wounds of Christ.
Formulistic number: six.
Formulistic number: sixfold.
Formulistic number: seven.
Formulistic numbers: sevenfold (e.
Seven brothers and one sister.
Journey beyond seven seas.
Seven year's peace with no killing of men.
King for seven years.
Exile for seven years.
Seven as a number in religious and social records.
Seven causes of poverty.
Seven Deadly Sins.
Seven ecclesiastical orders.
Seven grades of wisdom.
Seven joys of the Virgin Mary.
Seven masses necessary to free soul from hell.
Seven orders of poets.
Seven gifts of God (Holy Spirit).
Seven penitential psalms.
Seven prayers of saint.
Seven to whom alms should be given.
Seven fair rivers in Inis Eidheand (Eden) in the East of Africa.
Seven daughters of Humility.
King with seven wives and seven mares.
Seven brothers marry seven sisters.
Formulistic number: nine Three times nine.
Nine whirlpools of the world.
(Nine) wonders of Ireland.
Nine materials used in building Tower of Babel.
Formulistic number: eleven.
Formulistic number: twelve.
Twelve articles of faith.
Twelve abuses of the world.
Formulistic number: "twice twelve years".
Formulistic number: twelve plus thirteen.
Formulistic number: twelve score.
Formulistic number: twenty-four.
Formulistic number: thirty-six.
Formulistic number: thirteen.
Formulistic number: sixteen.
Formulistic number: thirty.
Formulistic number: forty.
Formulistic number: sixty.
Formulistic number: seventy-two.
Formulistic number: seventy-seven.
Formulistic numbers--miscellaneous.
Formulistic number: eight.
Eight deadly sins.
Eight virtues.
Eight miracles of Christ's body in the sacrament.
Eight unprofitable types of fasting.
Formulistic number: ten.
Ten plagues.
Formulistic number: twenty-five.
Formulistic number: twenty-six.
Formulistic number: thirty-two.
Formulistic number: eighty.
Formulistic number: sixteen hundred.
Formulistic number: eighty thousand.
Formulistic number: fifty-two lakhs.
Formulistic number: fourteen.
Formulistic number: fifteen.
Fifteen characteristics of a good (bad) woman.
The fifteen Oes.
Fifteen signs before Doomsday.
Formulistic number: seventeen.
Formulistic number: twenty-one.
Formulistic number: twenty-two.
Twenty-two rooms and twenty-two doors built by skillful carpenter.
Formulistic number: fifty-three.
Formulistic number: fifty-six.
Formulas based on the year.
A year and a day.
Seven years, seven months, seven days.
Seven (three) years between feasts.
Seven years as length of course in school.
Every third year as period of tribute.
Three hundred and sixty-five.
Twelve years and thirteen days.
A day and a night.
After four days--another two days--another day.
Formula: as many children as holes in a sieve.
Formulistic exaggerations.
Three-fourths of men of Ireland die in one night.
Testament willing rewards and punishments.
Blowing the house in.
Formula for other world: "Where no man goes and no crow flies."
Formulas of distance.
"A tree on island beyond the seven seas and the sixteen rivers."
Names of giants (Fomorians) with sinister significance.
Death personified.
Death enclosed in a bottle.
Death imprisoned by a soldier in a magic knapsack, bottle or nutshell.
Death magically bound to tree.
Death stuck to tree.
Death (demons) glued to chair.
Death as eight-headed monster.
Death allegorically personified as an animal made up of several different animals.
Death excluded from sacred grove.
Death (fate) assumes various forms to destroy men.
Death's messengers.
Death's messengers bribed with food.
Salt in food given Death's messengers renders them harmless.
Sickness personified.
Fever personified.
Life personified: old woman carrying healing potions and salves.
Old age personified.
Wind personified.
Man takes case against wind for damages.
Sovereignty personified.
Empire personified.
Poetry personified.
Sea personified.
Waves as tresses of sea-god's wife.
Waves as sea-god's horses.
River personified (Mother Ganges).
Truth personified.
Truth leaves city because there is no place left for her.
Time personified.
"Time" overpowered when weight is taken from his clock.
Mother of Time personified.
Twelve months as youths seated about fire.
The four seasons personified.
Fury personified.
Fury personified as demon which enters man's heart and counsels evil.
Valor personified.
Valor personified as bird which flutters over champion's head.
Virtue personified.
Energy (strength) personified.
Sin personified.
Sin personified as the goddess Venus with her train of nymphs.
Lust personified.
Wisdom personified.
Intelligence personified.
Falsehood personified.
War personified.
Battle carnage personified.
Victory personified.
Defeat personified.
Poverty personified.
Poverty personified as diseased beggar woman.
Fortune personified.
Fortune personified as a matron in fine clothing.
Adversity personified.
Civilization personified.
Personifications--miscellaneous.
Sloth personified.
Crime personified.
Wine personified.
Wine personified in person of the god Bacchus.
Cold personified.
Cold depreciated and praised.
Worry personified.
Modesty personified.
Ladder as symbol of upward progress.
Ladder to heaven as symbol of saint.
Virginity, Wisdom, and Prophecy personified as three beautiful maidens.
Color of flag (sails) on ship as message of good or bad news.
Colors corresponding to the four world quarters.
Color symbolism of the cardinal points.
Symbolism of colors in mass vestments.
Bridegroom inadvertently buys for bride cloth suitable only for widows.
Symbolic color: red.
Red garment to show anger of king.
Red as symbolic of martyrdom.
Martyrs called "red wheat"; saints, "Dei triticum" (God's wheat).
Mill in which two men are slain said to grind "red wheat".
Red as symbol of falsity.
Symbolic color: white.
White rose the symbol of death.
White as symbolic of martyrdom.
Symbolic color: black.
Black as symbol of grief.
Symbolic color: blue.
Blue as symbolic of martyrdom.
Symbolic color: green.
Green as symbolic of martyrdom.
Symbolic color: brown.
Brown hair as sign child is descended from goddess.
Symbolic color: purple.
Purple is symbol of royalty.
Yellow a lucky color.
Ring broken as token of broken engagement.
Princess crushes lotus-flower to show that she will be submissive.
Gray hair the symbol of departed usefulness.
Cloud (mist) as symbol of misfortune.
Olive branch symbol of peace.
Symbolism: not to fight alone.
Arthur's Round Table symbolic of round earth.
Message or orders given symbolic action.
Inverted shoes at doors to indicate banishment.
Black dummy to indicate banishment.
Sign language.
Language of flowers.
Lovers' assignation by symbolic messages.
Symbolism of the mass.
Lamb as symbol of Christ.
Allegorical game.
Nudity as sign of anger.
Nudity as sign of madness.
Symbolic wounding of king.
Symbolic names.
Three trees called "Grief," "Dark," and "Dumb-Mouthless Oak."
Symbols of divinity.
Mill turned by the water of the grace of God as symbol of saint.
Symbolism: needle and thread--sexual intercourse.
Warriors identically equipped (brothers).
Lodge-Boy and Thrown-Away as joint adventurers.
Dreadnaughts.
Hero "son of seven mothers".
Supernatural origin of hero: magic conception.
Eldest brother as hero.
Boyish exploits of hero.
Hero with extraordinary animal companions (cock, goat, cow, horse).
Boy hero.
Culture hero precocious.
Hero at first nameless.
Fool as hero.
Destined hero.
Hero born out of wedlock.
Beardless hero.
Giant heroes.
Death of hero.
Return of the hero.
Achilles heel.
Left eye only vulnerable spot.
Spot below right ear only vulnerable one.
Leprosy cured by holy water except on thumb.
Man can be injured only in armpits.
Unique deadly weapon.
Person can be killed only by red-hot spits being thrust through soles of his feet.
Giant ogre can be killed only with iron club he carries (with own sword).
Unique source of weakness.
Unique bait for fish.
Vulnerability only by one person.
Only one person can overtake hero.
Sword which will break in only one peril: this known only to the maker of the sword.
Ogre vulnerable only when his face is turned away when he is struck.
Only one way to besiege certain city.
Ring fits only one person.
Only one ferule fits certain staff.
Vessel from which nothing can be drunk save through certain tube.
Only one person refuses to weep at hero's death.
All trees except aspen refuse to make Christ's cross.
All snakes but one placated by music.
Unique survivor.
Hostile sewing churn.
Abandoned child reared by supernatural bull cannot be murdered.
Bewsls.
Quest for three fathers brought to begin of underground monster.
Fools try in vain to re wish of primeval birreng more his friend.
Tabu: going into begging about life.
Three med rescues from a frog.
Why squirre kills laws.
Spear has only force seed.
